

The Frog King or Iron Heinrich

Now one day it happened that the princess's golden ball did not fall into her hands, that she held up high, but instead it fell to the ground and rolled right into the water. The princess followed it with her eyes, but the ball disappeared, and the well was so deep that she could not see its bottom. Then she began to cry. She cried louder and louder, and she could not console herself.
As she was thus lamenting, someone called out to her, "What is the matter with you, princess? Your crying would turn a stone to pity."
She looked around to see where the voice was coming from and saw a frog, who had stuck his thick, ugly head out of the water. "Oh, it's you, old water-splasher," she said. "I am crying because my golden ball has fallen into the well."
"Be still and stop crying," answered the frog. I can help you, but what will you give me if I bring back your plaything?"
"Whatever you want, dear frog," she said, "my clothes, my pearls and precious stones, and even the golden crown that I am wearing."
The frog answered, "I do not want your clothes, your pearls and precious stones, nor your golden crown, but if you will love me and accept me as a companion and playmate, and let me sit next to you at your table and eat from your golden plate and drink from your cup and sleep in your bed, if you will promise this to me, then I'll dive down and bring your golden ball back to you."
"Oh, yes," she said, "I promise all of that to you if you will just bring the ball back to me." But she thought, "What is this stupid frog trying to say? He just sits here in the water with his own kind and croaks. He cannot be a companion to a human."
As soon as the frog heard her say "yes" he stuck his head under and dove to the bottom. He paddled back up a short time later with the golden ball in his mouth and threw it onto the grass. The princess was filled with joy when she saw her beautiful plaything once again, picked it up, and ran off.
"Wait, wait," called the frog, "take me along. I cannot run as fast as you." But what did it help him, that he croaked out after her as loudly as he could? She paid no attention to him, but instead hurried home and soon forgot the poor frog, who had to return again to his well.
The next day the princess was sitting at the table with the king and all the people of the court, and was eating from her golden plate when something came creeping up the marble steps: plip, plop, plip, plop. As soon as it reached the top, there came a knock at the door, and a voice called out, "Princess, youngest, open the door for me!"
She ran to see who was outside. She opened the door, and the frog was sitting there. Frightened, she slammed the door shut and returned to the table. The king saw that her heart was pounding and asked, "My child, why are you afraid? Is there a giant outside the door who wants to get you?"
"Oh, no," she answered. "it is a disgusting frog."
"What does the frog want from you?"
"Oh, father dear, yesterday when I was sitting near the well in the forest and playing, my golden ball fell into the water. And because I was crying so much, the frog brought it back, and because he insisted, I promised him that he could be my companion, but I didn't think that he could leave his water. But now he is just outside the door and wants to come in."
Just then there came a second knock at the door, and a voice called out:
The king said, "What you have promised, you must keep. Go and let the frog in."
She went and opened the door, and the frog hopped in, then followed her up to her chair. He sat there and called out, "Lift me up next to you."
She hesitated, until finally the king commanded her to do it. When the frog was seated next to her he said, "Now push your golden plate closer, so we can eat together."
She did it, but one could see that she did not want to. The frog enjoyed his meal, but for her every bite stuck in her throat. Finally he said, "I have eaten all I want and am tired. Now carry me to your room and make your bed so that we can go to sleep."
The princess began to cry and was afraid of the cold frog and did not dare to even touch him, and yet he was supposed to sleep in her beautiful, clean bed.
The king became angry and said, "You should not despise someone who has helped you in time of need."
She picked him up with two fingers, carried him upstairs, and set him in a corner. As she was lying in bed, he came creeping up to her and said, "I am tired, and I want to sleep as well as you do. Pick me up or I'll tell your father."
With that she became bitterly angry and threw him against the wall with all her might. "Now you will have your peace, you disgusting frog!"
But when he fell down, he was not a frog, but a prince with beautiful friendly eyes. And he was now, according to her father's will, her dear companion and husband. He told her how he had been enchanted by a wicked witch, and that she alone could have rescued him from the well, and that tomorrow they would go together to his kingdom. Then they fell asleep.
The next morning, just as the sun was waking them, a carriage pulled up, drawn by eight horses. They had white ostrich feathers on their heads and were outfitted with chains of gold. At the rear stood the young king's servant, faithful Heinrich. Faithful Heinrich had been so saddened by his master's transformation into a frog that he had had to place three iron bands around his heart to keep it from bursting in grief and sorrow. The carriage was to take the king back to his kingdom. Faithful Heinrich lifted them both inside and took his place at the rear. He was filled with joy over the redemption. After they had gone a short distance, the prince heard a crack from behind, as though something had broken.
He turned around and said, "Heinrich, the carriage is breaking apart."
Once again, and then once again the prince heard a cracking sound and thought that the carriage was breaking apart, but it was the bands springing from faithful Heinrich's heart because his master was now redeemed and happy.

Cat and Mouse in Partnership

This good advice was followed, and they bought a pot of fat, but they did not know where to store it. Finally, after much consideration, the cat said, "I know of no place where it will be better stored up than in the church. No one dares take anything away from there. We will put it beneath the altar, and not touch it until we are need it."
So the pot was stored safely away, but it was not long before the cat took a great longing for it, and said to the mouse, "I wanted to tell you, little mouse, that my cousin has brought a little son into the world, and she has asked me to be his godfather. He is white with brown spots, and I am to hold him over the baptismal font. Let me go out today, and you look after the house by yourself."
"Yes, yes," answered the mouse. "By all means go, and if you get anything good to eat, think of me. I would like to drink a drop of sweet red christening wine myself."
All this, however, was untrue. The cat had no cousin, and had not been asked to be godfather. He went straight to the church, crept up to the pot of fat, began to lick at it, and licked off the top of the fat. Then he went for a stroll on the roofs of the town, looked out for opportunities, and then stretched out in the sun, licking his whiskers whenever he thought of the pot of fat. He did not return home until it was evening.
"Well, here you are again," said the mouse. "You must have had a happy day."
"Everything went well," answered the cat.
"What name did they give the child?" asked the mouse.
"Top-Off," said the cat quite coolly.
"Top-Off?" cried the mouse. "That is a very odd and uncommon name. Is it a usual one in your family?"
"What does that matter?", said the cat. "It is no worse than Crumb-Thief, as your godchildren are called."
Before long the cat was seized by another fit of longing. He said to the mouse, "You must do me a favor, and once more manage the house alone for a day. I have been asked again to be godfather, and since the child has a white ring around its neck, I cannot refuse."
The good mouse consented. However, the cat crept behind the town wall to the church, and devoured half the pot of fat. "Nothing tastes as good as that which one eats by oneself," he said, and was quite satisfied with his day's work.
When he arrived home the mouse asked, "What name was this child christened with?"
"Half-Gone," answered the cat.
"Half-Gone? What are you saying? I have never heard that name in all my life. I'll wager it is not in the almanac."
The cat's mouth soon again began to water for the delicious goods. "All good things come in threes," he said to the mouse. "I have been asked to be godfather again. The child is totally black, only it has white paws. Otherwise it has not a single white hair on its whole body. This only happens once every few years. You will let me go, won't you?"
"Top-Off. Half-Gone," answered the mouse. "They are such odd names, that they make me stop and think."
"Here you sit at home," said the cat, "with your dark gray fur coat and long braid of hair capturing fantasies. That is because you do not go out in the daytime."
During the cat's absence the mouse cleaned the house, and put it in order, but the greedy cat devoured all the rest of the fat. "One has peace only after everything is eaten up," he said to himself. Well filled and fat, he did not return home until nighttime.
The mouse immediately asked what name had been given to the third child.
"You will not like it either," said the cat. "His name is All-Gone."
"All-Gone!", cried the mouse. "That is the most worrisome name of all. I have never seen it in print. All-Gone! What can that mean?" Then she shook her head, curled herself up, and lay down to sleep.
From this time forth no one invited the cat to be godfather, but when winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside, the mouse thought of their stored food, and said, "Come cat, we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored up for ourselves. It will taste good now."
"Yes," answered the cat. "You will enjoy it as much as you would enjoy sticking that dainty tongue of yours out of the window."
They set out on their way, but when they arrived, the pot of fat, to be sure, was still in its place, but it was empty. "Alas," said the mouse, "now I see what has happened. Now it comes to light. You are a true friend. You ate everything when you were serving as a godfather. First top off, then half done, then ..."
"Be quiet!" cried the cat. "One more word, and I will eat you too."
"All gone" was already on the poor mouse's lips. She had scarcely spoken it before the cat sprang on her, seized her, and swallowed her down. You see, that is the way of the world.

Mary's Child

One morning the woodcutter, filled with sorrow, went out to his work in the woods. While he was chopping wood suddenly there stood before him a beautiful tall woman with a crown of shining stars on her head.
She said to him, "I am the Virgin Mary, mother of the Baby Jesus. You are poor and needy. Bring your child to me. I will take her with me and be her mother and care for her."
The woodcutter obeyed, fetched his child, and turned her over to the Virgin Mary, who took her up into heaven with her. There the child fared well. She ate sweetened bread and drank fresh milk. Her clothes were of gold, and the little angels played with her.
When she was fourteen years old, the Virgin Mary summoned her one day and said, "Dear child, I am about to make a long journey. Take care of these keys to the thirteen doors of heaven. You may open twelve of these doors, and behold the glorious things inside, but the thirteenth door, to which this little key belongs, is forbidden for you. Be careful not to open it, or you will be unhappy."
The girl promised to be obedient, and when the Virgin Mary was gone, she began to examine the dwellings of the kingdom of heaven. Each day she opened one of them, until she had been to all twelve. An apostle, surrounded by great brilliance, sat in each one. She rejoiced in the magnificence and splendor, and the little angels who always accompanied her rejoiced with her.
Now only the forbidden door remained, and she felt a great desire to know what was hidden behind it. She said to the little angels, "I will not open it all the way, nor will I will go inside, but I will only unlock it so that we can see just a little through the crack."
"Oh no," said the little angels, "that would be a sin. The Virgin Mary has forbidden it, and it might easily lead to unhappiness for you."
To that she said nothing, but the desire in her heart was not stilled. To the contrary, it gnawed away, tormenting her, and would give her no rest.
Then one day when the angels had all gone out, she thought, " I am entirely alone now, and I could peek in. If I do so, no one will ever know."
She sought out the key, and as soon as she had it in her hand, she put it into the lock as well, and as soon as it was in the lock, she turned it around as well. The door sprang open, and there she saw the Trinity sitting in fire and brilliance. She stayed there a little while, looking at everything in amazement. Then she put her finger a little way into the brilliance, and her finger turned entirely golden. Immediately a great fear fell upon her. She slammed the door shut, and ran away.
The fear did not go away, do what she may. He heart pounded furiously forth and would not become still. And the gold remained on her finger as well. It would not come off, no matter how much she washed and rubbed.
Not long afterward, the Virgin Mary returned from her journey. She summoned the girl, and asked her to return the keys of heaven. When the girl gave the ring of keys to her, the Virgin looked into her eyes and said, "Have you not opened the thirteenth door as well.?"
"No," she replied.
Then the Virgin Mary laid her hand on the girl's heart, and felt how it pounded and pounded, and saw well that she had disobeyed her order and had opened the door. Then she said further, "You did not do it for sure?"
"No," said the girl a second time.
Then the Virgin noticed the finger that had turned golden from having touched the heavenly fire, and knew well that the girl had sinned, and she said a third time, "Have you not done it?"
"No," said the girl a third time.
Then the Virgin Mary said, "You have not obeyed me, and you have lied as well. You are no longer worthy to be in heaven."
Then the girl sank into a deep sleep, and when she awoke she lay below on earth, in the middle of a wilderness. She wanted to cry out, but she could not bring forth a sound. She jumped up and wanted to run away, but in wherever she turned, she was held back by thick thorn hedges which she could not break through. In the wilderness where she was imprisoned there stood an old hollow tree. It would have to serve as her home. She crept inside it when night came, and slept there. And when it stormed and rained, she found shelter inside it, but it was a miserable life, and she cried bitterly when she thought about how beautiful it had been in heaven, and how the angels had played with her.
Roots and wild berries were her only food, which she looked for as far as she could go. In the fall she gathered the fallen nuts and leaves, and carried them into the opening in the tree. The nuts were her food during the winter, and when snow and ice came, she crept under the leaves like a poor little animal, so that she would not freeze. Before long her clothes were ripped to shreds, and one piece of them after another fell off her.
When the sun shone warmly again she went outside and sat in front of the tree. Her long hair covered her on all sides like a cloak. Thus she sat year after year, feeling the world's misery and pain.
One day, when the trees were once again a fresh green, the king of the country was hunting in the woods. He followed a deer that had fled into the thicket that surrounded this part of the woods. Getting off his horse, he tore the brush aside and cut himself a path with his sword. When he had at last forced his way through, he saw a wonderfully beautiful girl sitting under the tree, covered entirely with her golden hair, down to her toes.
Filled with amazement, he stood still and looked at her, then he spoke to her, saying, "Who are you? Why are you sitting here in this wilderness?"
But she gave no answer, for she could not open her mouth.
The king continued, "Will you go with me to my castle?"
To this she just nodded her head a little. The king took her into his arms, lifted her onto his horse, and rode home with her. Arriving at the royal castle, he had her dressed in beautiful clothing and gave her an abundance of everything. Although she could not speak, she was still so beautiful and charming that he fell in love her with all his heart, and it was not long before he married her.
About a year later the new queen brought a son into the world. Afterward the Virgin Mary appeared to her in the night when she was lying alone in her bed, and said, "If you will tell the truth and confess that you unlocked the forbidden door, I will open your mouth and give you back your speech, but if you persevere in sin, and stubbornly deny it, I will take your newborn child away with me."
The queen was allowed to answer, but she remained obstinate, and said, "No, I did not open the forbidden door," and the Virgin Mary took the newborn child out of her arms and disappeared with it.
The next morning when the child was not to be found, it was rumored among the people that the queen was a cannibal and had killed her own child. She heard all this and could say nothing to the contrary, but the king did not want to believe it, because he loved her so much.
One year later the queen again bore a son. In the night the Virgin Mary again came to her, and said, "If you will confess that you opened the forbidden door, I will give you your child back and release your tongue, but if you continue in sin and deny it, then I will take this newborn child with me as well."
Then the queen said again, "No, I did not open the forbidden door," and the Virgin took the child out of her arms, and took it away with her to heaven.
The next morning, when this child had disappeared as well, the people loudly said that the queen had eaten it, and the king's councilors demanded that she should be brought to justice. The king, however, loved her so dearly that he would not believe it, and ordered the councilors, under threat of death, to say nothing more about it.
The following year the queen gave birth to a beautiful little daughter, and for a third time the Virgin Mary appeared to her in the night.
She said, "Follow me." Taking the queen by the hand, she led her to heaven, and showed her there her two oldest children, who were laughing and playing with the ball of the world.
When the queen rejoiced at seeing this, the Virgin Mary said, "Has your heart not yet softened? If you will confess that you opened the forbidden door, I will give you back your two little sons."
But for a third time the queen answered, "No, I did not open the forbidden door." Then the virgin let her sink down to earth again, and took away her third child as well.
The next morning, when it became known, all the people shouted loudly, "The queen is a cannibal. She must be condemned." And the king was no longer able to hold back his councilors."
A trial was held, and as she was not able to respond and defend herself, she was condemned to be burned at the stake. Wood was piled together. After she had been bound tightly to a stake, and the fire was beginning to burn around her, the hard ice of pride melted. Her heart was moved by regret, and she thought, "If only I could confess before my death that I opened the door."
Then her voice came back to her, and she cried out loudly, "Yes, Mary, I did it!"
Immediately rain began to fall from heaven, and it put out the fiery flames. A light broke forth above her, and the Virgin Mary descended. She had the two little sons by her side, and the newborn daughter on her arm. Speaking kindly to her, she said, "Whoever repents a sin and confesses it will be forgiven."
Then she gave her the three children, released her tongue, and gave her happiness for her entire life.

The Story of a Boy
Who Went Forth to Learn Fear

Now when something had to be done, it was always the oldest son who had to do it. However, if the father asked him fetch anything when it was late, or even worse, at night, and if the way led through the churchyard or some other spooky place, he would always answer, "Oh, no, father, I won't go there. It makes me shudder!" For he was afraid.
In the evening by the fire when stories were told that made one's flesh creep, the listeners sometimes said, "Oh, that makes me shudder!" The youngest son would sit in a corner and listen with the others, but he could not imagine what they meant.
"They are always saying, 'It makes me shudder! It makes me shudder!' It does not make me shudder. That too must be a skill that I do not understand."
Now it happened that one day his father said to him, "Listen, you there in the corner. You are getting big and strong. You too will have to learn something by which you can earn your bread. See how your brother puts himself out, but there seems to be no hope for you."
"Well, father," he answered, "I do want to learn something. Indeed, if possible I would like to learn how to shudder. I don't understand that at all yet."
The oldest son laughed when he heard that, and thought to himself, "Dear God, what a dimwit that brother of mine is. Nothing will come of him as long as he lives. As the twig is bent, so grows the tree."
The father sighed, and answered him, "You may well learn to shudder, but you will not earn your bread by shuddering."
Soon afterward the sexton came to the house on a visit, and the father complained to him about his troubles, telling him how his younger son was so stupid in everything, that he knew nothing and was learning nothing. "Just think," he said, "when I asked him how he was going to earn his bread, he actually asked to learn to shudder."
"If there is nothing more than that," replied the sexton, "he can learn that with me. Just send him to me. I will plane off his rough edges."
The father agreed to do this, for he thought, "It will do the boy well."
So the sexton took him home with him, and he was to ring the church bell. A few days later the sexton awoke him at midnight and told him to get up, climb the church tower, and ring the bell.
"You will soon learn what it is to shudder," he thought. He secretly went there ahead of him. After the boy had reached the top of the tower, had turned around and was about to take hold of the bell rope, he saw a white figure standing on the steps opposite the sound hole.
"Who is there?" he shouted, but the figure gave no answer, neither moving nor stirring. "Answer me," shouted the boy, "or get out of here. You have no business here at night."
The sexton, however, remained standing there motionless so that the boy would think he was a ghost.
The boy shouted a second time, "What do you want here? Speak if you are an honest fellow, or I will throw you down the stairs."
The sexton thought, "He can't seriously mean that." He made not a sound and stood as if he were made of stone.
Then the boy shouted to him for the third time, and as that also was to no avail, he ran toward him and pushed the ghost down the stairs. It fell down ten steps and remained lying there in a corner. Then the boy rang the bell, went home, and without saying a word went to bed and fell asleep.
The sexton's wife waited a long time for her husband, but he did not come back. Finally she became frightened and woke up the boy, asking, "Don't you know where my husband is? He climbed up the tower before you did."
"No," replied the boy, "but someone was standing by the sound hole on the other side of the steps, and because he would neither give an answer nor go away, I took him for a thief and threw him down the steps. Go there and you will see if he was the one. I am sorry if he was."
The woman ran out and found her husband, who was lying in the corner moaning. He had broken his leg. She carried him down, and then crying loudly she hurried to the boy's father. "Your boy," she shouted, "has caused a great misfortune. He threw my husband down the steps, causing him to break his leg. Take the good-for-nothing out of our house."
The father was alarmed, and ran to the sexton's house, and scolded the boy. "What evil tricks are these? The devil must have prompted you to do them."
"Father," he replied, "do listen to me. I am completely innocent. He was standing there in the night like someone with evil intentions. I did not know who it was, and I warned him three times to speak or to go away."
"Oh," said the father, "I have experienced nothing but unhappiness with you. Get out of my sight. I do not want to look at you anymore."
"Yes, father, and gladly. Just wait until daylight, and I will go forth and learn how to shudder. Then I shall have a skill that will support me."
"Learn what you will," said the father. "It is all the same to me. Here are fifty talers for you. Take them and go into the wide world, but tell no one where you come from, or who your father is, because I am ashamed of you."
"Yes, father, I will do just as you wish. If that is all you want from me, I can easily remember it."
So at daybreak the boy put his fifty talers into his pocket, and went forth on the main road, continually saying to himself, "If only I could shudder! If only I could shudder!"
A man came up to him and heard this conversation that the boy was holding with himself, and when they had walked a little farther to where they could see the gallows, the man said to him, "Look, there is the tree where seven men got married to the rope maker's daughter, and are now learning how to fly. Sit down beneath it, and wait until night comes, and then you will learn how to shudder."
"If there is nothing more than that," answered the boy, "I can do it easily. But if I learn how to shudder that quickly, you shall have my fifty talers. Just come back to me tomorrow morning."
Then the boy went to the gallows, sat down beneath them, and waited until evening. Because he was cold, he made himself a fire. However, at midnight there came up such a cold wind that in spite of his fire he could not get warm. And as the wind pushed the hanged men against each other, causing them to move to and fro, he thought, "You are freezing down here next to the fire. Those guys up there must really be freezing and suffering." Feeling pity for them, he put up the ladder, and climbed up, untied them, one after the other, and then brought down all seven.
Then he stirred up the fire, blew into it, and set them all around it to warm themselves. But they just sat there without moving, and their clothes caught fire. So he said, "Be careful, or I will hang you up again."
The dead men, however, heard nothing and said nothing, and they let their rags continue to burn. This made him angry, and he said, "If you won't be careful, I can't help you. I don't want to burn up with you." So he hung them up again all in a row. Then he sat down by his fire and fell asleep.
The next morning the man came to him and wanted to have the fifty talers. He said, "Well, do you know how to shudder?"
"No," he answered. "Where would I have learned it? Those fellows up there did not open their mouths. They were so stupid that they let the few old rags which they had on their bodies catch fire."
Then the man saw that he would not be getting the fifty talers that day. He went away saying, "Never before have I met such a fellow."
The boy went on his way as well, and once more began muttering to himself, " Oh, if only I could shudder! Oh, if only I could shudder!"
A cart driver who was walking along behind him heard this and asked, "Who are you?"
"I don't know," replied the boy.
Then the cart driver asked, "Where do you come from?"
"I don't know."
"Who is your father?"
"I am not permitted to say."
"What are you always muttering to yourself?"
"Oh," replied the boy, "I want to be able shudder, but no one can teach me how."
"Stop that foolish chatter," said the cart driver. "Come, walk along with me, and I will see that I get a place for you."
The boy went with the cart driver, and that evening they came to an inn where they decided to spend the night. On entering the main room, the boy again said quite loudly, "If only I could shudder! If only I could shudder!"
Hearing this, the innkeeper laughed and said, "If that is your desire, there should be a good opportunity for you here."
"Oh, be quiet," said the innkeeper's wife. "Too many meddlesome people have already lost their lives. It would be a pity and a shame if his beautiful eyes would never again see the light of day."
But the boy said, "I want to learn to shudder, however difficult it may be. That is why I left home."
He gave the innkeeper no rest, until the latter told him that there was a haunted castle not far away where a person could very easily learn how to shudder, if he would just keep watch there for three nights. The king had promised that whoever would dare to do this could have his daughter in marriage, and she was the most beautiful maiden under the sun. Further, in the castle there were great treasures, guarded by evil spirits. These treasures would then be freed, and would make a poor man rich enough. Many had entered the castle, but no one had come out again.
The next morning the boy went to the king and said, "If it be allowed, I will keep watch three nights in the haunted castle."
The king looked at him, and because the boy pleased him, he said, "You may ask for three things to take into the castle with you, but they must be things that are not alive."
To this the boy replied, "Then I ask for a fire, a lathe, and a woodcarver's bench with a knife."
The king had all these things carried into the castle for him during the day. When night was approaching, the boy went inside and made himself a bright fire in one of the rooms, placed the woodcarver's bench and knife beside it, and sat down at the lathe.
"Oh, if only I could shudder!" he said. "But I won't learn it here either."
Towards midnight he decided to stir up his fire. He was just blowing into it when a cry suddenly came from one of the corners, "Au, meow! How cold we are!"
"You fools," he shouted, "what are you crying about? If you are cold, come and sit down by the fire and warm yourselves."
When he had said that, two large black cats came with a powerful leap and sat down on either side of him, looking at him savagely with their fiery eyes.
A little while later, after warming themselves, they said, "Comrade, shall we play a game of cards?"
"Why not?" he replied, "But first show me your paws."
So they stretched out their claws.
"Oh," he said, "what long nails you have. Wait. First I will have to trim them for you."
With that he seized them by their necks, put them on the woodcarver's bench, and tightened them into the vice by their feet. "I have been looking at your fingers," he said, "and my desire to play cards has disappeared," and he struck them dead and threw them out into the water.
After he had put these two to rest, he was about to sit down again by his fire, when from every side and every corner there came black cats and black dogs on red-hot chains. More and more of them appeared until he could no longer move. They shouted horribly, then jumped into his fire and pulled it apart, trying to put it out.
He quietly watched them for a little while, but finally it was too much for him, and he seized his carving-knife, and cried, "Away with you, you villains!" and hacked away at them. Some of them ran away, the others he killed, and threw out into the pond. When he came back he blew into the embers of his fire until they flamed up again, and warmed himself.
As he thus sat there, his eyes would no longer stay open, and he wanted to fall asleep. Looking around, he saw a large bed in the corner. "That is just what I wanted," he said, and lay down in it. However, as he was about to shut his eyes, the bed began to move by itself, going throughout the whole castle.
"Good," he said, "but let's go faster."
Then the bed rolled on as if six horses were harnessed to it, over thresholds and stairways, up and down. But then suddenly, hop, hop, it tipped upside down and lay on him like a mountain. But he threw the covers and pillows into the air, climbed out, and said, "Now anyone who wants to may drive." Then he lay down by his fire, and slept until it was day.
In the morning the king came, and when he saw him lying there on the ground, he thought that the ghosts had killed him and that he was dead. Then said he, "It is indeed a pity to lose such a handsome person."
The boy heard this, got up, and said, "It hasn't come to that yet."
The king was astonished, but glad, and asked how he had fared.
"Very well," he replied. "One night is past. The two others will pass as well."
When he returned to the innkeeper, the latter looked astonished and said, "I did not think that I'd see you alive again. Did you learn how to shudder?"
"No," he said, "it is all in vain. If someone could only tell me how."
The second night he again went up to the old castle, sat down by the fire, and began his old song once more, "If only I could shudder!"
As midnight was approaching he heard a noise and commotion. At first it was soft, but then louder and louder. Then it was a little quiet, and finally, with a loud scream, half of a man came down the chimney and fell in front of him.
"Hey!" he shouted. "Another half belongs here. This is too little."
Then the noise began again. With roaring and howling the other half fell down as well.
"Wait," he said. "Let me blow on the fire and make it burn a little warmer for you."
When he had done that and looked around again. The two pieces had come together, and a hideous man was sitting in his place.
"That wasn't part of the wager," said the boy. "That bench is mine."
The man wanted to force him aside, but the boy would not let him, instead pushing him away with force, and then sitting down again in his own place.
Then still more men fell down, one after the other. They brought nine bones from dead men and two skulls, then set them up and bowled with them.
The boy wanted to play too and said, "Listen, can I bowl with you?"
"Yes, if you have money."
"Money enough," he answered, "but your bowling balls are not quite round." Then he took the skulls, put them in the lathe and turned them round.
"There, now they will roll better," he said. "Hey! This will be fun!"
He played with them and lost some of his money, but when the clock struck twelve, everything disappeared before his eyes. He lay down and peacefully fell asleep.
The next morning the king came to learn what had happened. "How did you do this time?" he asked.
"I went bowling," he answered, "and lost a few pennies."
"Did you shudder?"
"How?" he said. "I had great fun, but if I only knew how to shudder."
On the third night he sat down again on his bench and said quite sadly, "If only I could shudder!"
When it was late, six large men came in carrying a coffin. At this he said, "Aha, for certain that is my little cousin, who died a few days ago." Then he motioned with his finger and cried out, "Come, little cousin, come."
They put the coffin on the ground. He went up to it and took the lid off. A dead man lay inside. He felt his face, and it was cold as ice.
"Wait," he said, "I will warm you up a little." He went to the fire and warmed his own hand, then laid it on the dead man's face, but the dead man remained cold. Then he took him out, sat down by the fire, and laid him on his lap, rubbing the dead man's arms to get the blood circulating again.
When that did not help either, he thought to himself, "When two people lie in bed together, they keep each other warm." So he carried the dead man to the bed, put him under the covers, and lay down next to him. A little while later the dead man became warm too and began to move.
The boy said, "See, little cousin, I got you warm, didn't I?"
But the dead man cried out, "I am going to strangle you."
"What?" he said. "Is that my thanks? Get back into your coffin!" Then he picked him up, threw him inside, and shut the lid. Then the six men came and carried him away again.
"I cannot shudder," he said. "I won't learn it here as long as I live."
Then a man came in. He was larger than all others, and looked frightful. But he was old and had a long white beard.
"You wretch," he shouted, "you shall soon learn what it is to shudder, for you are about to die."
"Not so fast," answered the boy. "If I am to die, I will have to be there."
"I've got you," said the monster.
"Now, now, don't boast. I am just as strong as you are, and probably even stronger."
"We shall see," said the old man. "If you are stronger than I am, I shall let you go. Come, let's put it to the test."
Then the old man led him through dark passageways to a blacksmith's forge, took an ax, and with one blow drove one of the anvils into the ground.
"I can do better than that," said the boy, and went to the other anvil. The old man stood nearby, wanting to look on. His white beard hung down. The boy seized the ax and split the anvil with one blow, wedging the old man's beard in the crack.
"Now I have you," said the boy. "Now it is your turn to die." Then he seized an iron bar and beat the old man until he moaned and begged him to stop, promising that he would give him great riches. The boy pulled out the ax and released him. The old man led him back into the castle, and showed him three chests full of gold in a cellar.
"Of these," he said, "one is for the poor, the second one is for the king, and the third one is yours."
Meanwhile it struck twelve, and the spirit disappeared, leaving the boy standing in the dark. "I can find my own way out," he said. Feeling around, he found his way to the bedroom, and fell asleep by his fire.
The next morning the king came and said, "By now you must have learned how to shudder."
"No," he answered. "What is it? My dead cousin was here, and a bearded man came and showed me a large amount of money down below, but no one showed me how to shudder."
Then the king said, "You have redeemed the castle, and shall marry my daughter."
"That is all very well," said the boy, "but I still do not know how to shudder."
Then the gold was brought up, and the wedding celebrated, but however much the young king loved his wife, and however happy he was, he still was always saying, "If only I could shudder. If only I could shudder." With time this made her angry.
Her chambermaid said, "I can help. I know how he can learn to shudder."
She went out to the brook that flowed through the garden, and caught a whole bucketful of minnows. That night when the young king was asleep, his wife was to pull the covers off him and pour the bucketful of cold water and minnows onto him, so that the little fishes would wriggle all over him.
When she did this, he woke up crying out, "Oh, what is making me shudder? What is making me shudder, dear wife? Yes, now I know how to shudder."

The Wolf and the Seven Young Kids

The kids said, "Mother dear, we will take care of ourselves. You can go away without any worries."
Then the old one bleated, and went on her way with her mind at ease.
It was not long before someone knocked at the door and called out, "Open the door, children dear, your mother is here, and has brought something for each one of you."
But the little kids knew from the rough voice that it was the wolf.
"We will not open the door," they cried out. "You are not our mother. She has a soft and gentle voice, but your voice is rough. You are the wolf."
So the wolf went to a shopkeeper and bought himself a large piece of chalk, which he ate, making his voice soft. Then he came back and knocked at the door, calling out, "Open the door, children dear. Your mother is here and has brought something for each one of you."
But the wolf laid one of his black paws inside the window. The children saw it and cried out, "We will not open the door. Our mother does not have a black foot like you. You are the wolf."
So the wolf ran to a baker and said, "I have sprained my foot. Rub some dough on it for me." After the baker had rubbed dough on his foot, the wolf ran to the miller and said, "Sprinkle some white flour on my foot for me."
The miller thought, "The wolf wants to deceive someone," and refused to do it, so the wolf said, "If you will not do it, I will eat you up." That frightened the miller, and he made his paw white for him. Yes, that is the way people are.
Now the villain went for a third time to the door, knocked at it, and said, "Open the door for me, children. Your dear little mother has come home, and has brought every one of you something from the woods."
The little kids cried out, "First show us your paw so we may know that you are our dear little mother."
So he put his paw inside the window, and when they saw that it was white, they believed that everything he said was true, and they opened the door. But who came in? It was the wolf. They were terrified and wanted to hide. One jumped under the table, the second into the bed, the third into the stove, the fourth into the kitchen, the fifth into the cupboard, the sixth under the washbasin, and the seventh into the clock case. But the wolf found them all, and with no further ado he swallowed them down his throat, one after the other. However, he did not find the youngest kid, the one who was in the clock case.
After satisfying his appetite he went outside and lay down under a tree in the green meadow and fell asleep.
Soon afterward the old goat came home from the woods. Oh, what a sight she saw there. The door stood wide open. Table, chairs, and benches were tipped over. The washbasin was in pieces. The covers and pillows had been pulled off the bed. She looked for her children, but they were nowhere to be found. She called them by name, one after the other, but no one answered. When she at last came to the youngest, a soft voice cried out, "Mother dear, I am hiding in the clock case. She took it out, and it told her that the wolf had come and had eaten up all the others. You can just imagine how she cried for her poor children.
Finally in her despair she went outside, and the youngest kid ran with her. They came to the meadow, and there lay the wolf by the tree, snoring so loudly that the branches shook. She looked at him from all sides and saw that something was moving and jiggling inside his full belly.
"Good gracious," she thought. "Is it possible that my poor children, whom he has swallowed down for his supper, can still be alive?"
The mother goat sent the kid home and to fetch scissors, and a needle and thread, and then she cut open the monster's paunch. She had scarcely made one cut, before a little kid stuck its head out, and as she continued to cut, one after the other all six jumped out, and they were all still alive. They were not even hurt, for in his greed the monster had swallowed them down whole. How happy they were! They hugged their dear mother, and jumped about like a tailor on his wedding day.
But the mother said, "Go now and look for some big stones. We will fill the godless beast's stomach with them while he is still asleep."
The seven kids quickly brought the stones, and they put as many as many of them into his stomach as it would hold. Then the mother hurriedly sewed him up again. He was not aware of anything and never once stirred.
The wolf finally awoke and got up onto his legs. Because the stones in his stomach made him very thirsty, he wanted to go to a well and get a drink. But when he began to walk and to move about, the stones in his stomach knocked against each other and rattled.
Then he cried out:
What rumbles and tumbles, Inside of me. I thought it was kids, But it's stones that they be.
When he got to the well and leaned over the water to drink, the heavy stones pulled him in, and he drowned miserably.
When the seven kids saw what had happened, they ran up and cried out, "The wolf is dead! The wolf is dead!" And with their mother they danced for joy around about the well.

Faithful Johannes

Faithful Johannes was his favorite servant, and was so called, because he had been so loyal to him for his whole life long. When he approached the bed the king said to him, "Most faithful Johannes, I feel that my end is near. My only concern is for my son. He is still young and may not always have the best judgment. I will not be able to close my eyes in peace if you do not promise to teach him everything that he ought to know, and to be his foster father."
Faithful Johannes answered, "I will not forsake him, and will serve him faithfully, even if it costs me my life."
At this, the old king said, "Then I will die in comfort and peace," adding, "After my death, show him the entire castle -- all the chambers, halls, and vaults, and all the treasures which lie therein. But do not show him the last chamber in the long gallery, which contains the portrait of the Princess of the Golden Roof. If he sees that picture, he will fall violently in love with her, will fall down unconscious, and will put himself at great risk for her sake. You must protect him from that."
After faithful Johannes had once more given his promise to the old king about this, the latter said no more, but laid his head on his pillow and died.
After the old king had been carried to his grave, faithful Johannes told the young king all that he had promised his father on his deathbed, and said, "I will surely keep my promise, and will be loyal to you as I have been loyal to him, even if it should cost me my life."
When the mourning was over, faithful Johannes said to the young king, "It is now time for you to see your inheritance. I will show you your father's castle." Then he took him everywhere, up and down, and let him see all the riches and the magnificent chambers. But there was one chamber which he did not open, the one that contained the dangerous portrait. Now the portrait was so placed that when the door was opened one looked straight at it. It was so masterfully painted that it seemed to live and breathe and to be the most charming beautiful thing in the whole world.
The young king noticed that faithful Johannes always walked past this one door, and said, "Why do you never open this one for me?"
He replied, "There is something in there that would frighten you."
The king answered "I have seen the entire castle, and I want to know what is in this room as well." And he was about to break open the door by force.
Faithful Johannes held him back, saying, "I promised your father before his death that you should not see inside this chamber. It could bring great misfortune on you and on me."
"Oh, no!" replied the young king. "If I do not go in, it will be my certain downfall. I shall have no rest day or night until I have seen inside with my own eyes. I shall not leave here until you have unlocked the door."
Faithful Johannes saw that there was no other way. With a heavy heart and many sighs, he took the key from the large ring. After opening the door, he went in first, thinking that he could block king's view of the portrait, that the king would not see it in front of him. But what good did it do? The king stood on tiptoes and saw the portrait over faithful Johannes's shoulder. After seeing the girl's portrait, which was so magnificent and glistened with gold and precious stones, he fell unconscious to the ground.
Faithful Johannes picked him up, carried him to his bed, and sorrowfully thought, "Misfortune has befallen us, dear Lord. How will it end?" Then he strengthened the king with wine, until he regained consciousness.
The king's first words were, "Oh, whose portrait is that beautiful picture?"
"That is the Princess of the Golden Roof," answered faithful Johannes.
The king continued, "My love for her is so great, that if all the leaves on all the trees were tongues, they would not be able to express it. I will risk my life to win her. You are my most faithful Johannes. You must help me."
The faithful servant thought to himself for a long time how to approach the matter, for it was difficult even to come into view of the king's daughter. Finally he thought of a way, and said to the king, "Everything which she has about her is of gold -- tables, chairs, dishes, cups, bowls, and household implements. Among your treasures are five tons of gold. Have the royal goldsmiths fashion one ton into all manner of vessels and utensils, into all kinds of birds, wild beasts, and strange animals. She will like these things, and we will go there with them and to try our luck."
The king summoned all the goldsmiths, and they had to work night and day until at last the most splendid things were prepared. When everything had been loaded on board a ship, faithful Johannes disguised himself as a merchant, and the king had to do the same thing in order to make himself quite unrecognizable. Then they sailed across the sea, and sailed on until they came to the city where the Princess of the Golden Roof lived.
Faithful Johannes had the king stay behind on the ship and wait for him. "Perhaps I shall bring the princess with me," he said. "Therefore see that everything is in order. Have the golden vessels set out and the whole ship decorated." Then he put all kinds of golden things into his apron, went on shore and walked straight to the royal castle. When he entered the courtyard of the castle, a beautiful girl was standing there by the well with two golden buckets in her hand, drawing water with them. She was just turning around to carry away the sparkling water when she saw the stranger and asked who he was.
He answered, "I am a merchant," opening his apron, and letting her look in.
"Oh, what beautiful golden things," she cried, putting her buckets down and looking at the golden wares one after the other. Then the girl said, "The princess must see these things. She takes such great pleasure in golden things, that she will buy all you have." Taking him by the hand, she led him upstairs, for she was the princess's chambermaid.
When the princess saw the wares, she was quite delighted and said, "They are so beautifully made that I will buy them all from you."
But faithful Johannes said, "I am only the servant of a rich merchant. The things I have here are not to be compared with those my master has in his ship. They are the most beautiful and valuable things that have ever been made in gold." When she wanted to have everything brought up to her, he said, "There is so much that it would take a great many days to do that, and so many rooms would be required to exhibit them, that your house is not big enough."
This made her all the more curious and desirous, so at last she said, "Take me to the ship. I will go there myself and see your master's treasures."
Faithful Johannes happily led her to the ship, and when the king beheld her, he saw that she was even more beautiful than the portrait, and he thought that his heart would surely break. Then she boarded the ship, and the king led her inside. But faithful Johannes remained with the helmsman and ordered the ship to be pushed off, saying, "Set all the sails and fly like a bird in the air."
Inside, the king showed her the golden vessels, every one of them, and also the wild beasts and strange animals. Many hours went by while she was looking at everything, and in her delight she did not notice that the ship was sailing away. After she had looked at the last item, she thanked the merchant and wanted to go home, but when she came to the side of the ship, she saw that it was on the high seas far from land, and speeding onward at full sail.
"Oh!" she cried in alarm "I've been betrayed. I've been kidnapped and have fallen into the power of a merchant. I would rather die!"
Taking her by the hand, the king said, "I am not a merchant. I am a king, and of no lower birth than you are. If I have tricked you into coming with me, it is only because of my great love for you. The first time I saw your portrait, I fell to the ground unconscious."
When the Princess of the Golden Roof was comforted when she heard this. Her heart yielded to him, and she willingly consented to marry him.
Now it so happened that while they were sailing onward on the high sea, faithful Johannes, who was sitting at the front of the ship making music, saw three ravens flying through the air towards them. He stopped playing and listened to what they were saying to each other, for he could understand them.
One cried "Oh, he is carrying home the Princess of the Golden Roof."
"Yes," replied the second, "but he doesn't have her yet."
The third one said, "Yes, he has her. She is sitting beside him in the ship."
Then the first one began again, crying, "What good will that do him? When they reach land a chestnut horse will leap forward to meet him, and the prince will want to mount it, but if he does that, it will leap up into the air with him, and he will never see his bride again."
The second one spoke, "Is there no escape?"
"Oh, yes, if someone else quickly mounts it, takes the gun from its saddlebag, and shoots the horse dead, then young king will be rescued. But who knows that? And if anyone does know it, and tells it to the king, he will be turned to stone from his toes to his knees."
Then the second raven said, "I know more than that. Even if the horse is killed, still the young king will not keep his bride. When they enter the castle together, a ready-made wedding shirt will be lying there on a platter. It will appear to be woven of gold and silver, but it is nothing but sulfur and pitch. If he puts it on, it will burn him to the very marrow and bone."
The third one spoke, "Is there no escape at all?"
"Oh, yes," replied the second raven. "If anyone with gloves on seizes the garment and throws it into the fire and burns it up, the young king will be saved. But what good will that do? If anyone knows it and tells it to the king, half his body will become stone, from his knees to his heart."
Then the third raven said, "I know still more. Even if the wedding shirt is burned up, still the young king will not have his bride. After the wedding, when the dancing begins and the young queen is dancing, she will suddenly turn pale and fall down as if dead. If someone does not lift her up and draw three drops of blood from her right breast and spit them out again, she will die. But if anyone who knows that reveals it, his entire body will turn to stone, from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet."
After the ravens had thus spoken they flew away. Faithful Johannes had understood everything well. From that time forth he became quiet and sad, for if he concealed what he had heard from his master, it would bring misfortune to the king, but if he revealed it to him, then he himself would have to sacrifice his life.
Finally he said to himself, "I will save my master, even if it brings destruction on myself."
When they landed, what the raven foretold did indeed happen, and a magnificent chestnut horse sprang forward.
"Excellent!" said the king. "He shall carry me to my castle."
He was about to mount it when faithful Johannes pushed in front of him, quickly jumped onto the horse, drew the gun from its saddlebag, and shot the horse.
The king's other servants, who were not very fond of faithful Johannes, shouted, "How shameful to kill the beautiful animal that was to have carried the king to his castle."
But the king said, "Hold your peace and leave him alone. He is my most faithful Johannes. Who knows what good may come of this?"
They entered the castle, and in the hall there stood a platter on which lay the wedding shirt that appeared to be made of gold and silver. The young king went towards it and was about to take hold of it, but faithful Johannes pushed him away, seized it with gloves, carried it quickly to the fire, and burned it up.
The other servants began to murmur again, saying, "Look, now he is even burning up the king's wedding shirt."
But the young king said, "Who knows what good he may have done? Leave him alone. He is my most faithful Johannes."
And now the wedding took place. The dance began, with the bride also taking part. Faithful Johannes was watchful and looked into her face. Suddenly she turned pale and fell to the ground as if she were dead. He ran quickly to her, picked her up and carried her into a chamber. He laid her down, then knelt and sucked three drops of blood from her right breast, and spat them out. Immediately she breathed again and regained consciousness. The young king saw what had happened, and not knowing why faithful Johannes had done it, grew angry and shouted, "Throw him into prison."
The next morning faithful Johannes was condemned and led to the gallows. Standing high on the platform and about to be executed, he said, "Everyone who is condemned to die is permitted before his end to say one last thing. May I too have this right?"
"Yes," answered the king. "You are granted this right."
Faithful Johannes said, "I have been unjustly condemned, and have always been loyal to you, and he related how he had heard the conversation of the ravens at sea, and how he had had to do all these things in order to save his master.
Then the king cried, "Oh, my most faithful Johannes, pardon! Pardon! Bring him down."
But as faithful Johannes spoke the last word, he fell down lifeless and turned to stone.
This caused the king and the queen great grief, and the king said, "Oh, I have rewarded him very badly for his great loyalty." He then ordered the stone figure to be taken up and placed in his bedroom next to his bed. Every time that he looked at it he wept, saying, "Oh, if only I could bring you back to life again, my most faithful Johannes."
Some time passed and the queen bore twins, two sons who grew fast and were her delight. Once when the queen was at church and the two children were sitting beside their father and playing, he again looked sadly at the stone statue and said, "Oh, if only I could bring you back to life again, my most faithful Johannes."
Then the stone began to speak and said, "You can bring me back to life again if you will in return give up what is dearest to you."
The king cried, "For you I will give up everything I have in the world."
The stone continued, "If you will cut off the heads of your two children with your own hand, then sprinkle their blood on me, I shall be restored to life."
The king was horrified when he heard that he would have to kill his own dearest children, but he thought of faithful Johannes's great loyalty, and how he had died for him, then drew his sword, and with his own hand cut off the children's heads. And when he had smeared the stone with their blood, it returned to life, and faithful Johannes stood before him, again healthy and well.
He said to the king, "Your loyalty shall not go unrewarded," then taking the children's heads, he put them on again, then rubbed the wounds with their blood, at which they became immediately whole again, and jumped about and went on playing as if nothing had happened.
The king was overjoyed. When he saw the queen coming he hid faithful Johannes and the two children in a large chest. When she entered, he said to her, "Have you been praying in the church?"
"Yes, she answered, "but I have constantly been thinking about faithful Johannes and what misfortune has befallen him because of us."
Then he said, "Dear wife, we can give him his life again, but it will cost us our two little sons. We will have to sacrifice them."
The queen turned pale, and her heart filled with terror, but she said, "We owe it to him for his great loyalty."
The king rejoiced to hear that she agreed with him, then he opened up the chest and brought forth faithful Johannes and the children, saying, "God be praised! Faithful Johannes has been saved, and we have our little sons again as well." He told her how everything had happened. Then they lived happily together until they died.


The Good Bargain

"Well," he said he to himself, "they are talking nonsense. It is seven  that I was paid, not eight."
When he reached the water, he shouted to them, "You are stupid  creatures. Don't you know any better than that? It is seven talers, not  eight."
The frogs, however, kept up with their "ak, ak, ak, ak."
"Now then, if you won't believe it, I can count it out for you." Then  taking his money out of his pocket, he counted out the seven talers,  twenty-four groschens in each one.
However, the frogs paid no attention to his counting, and again cried  out, "ak, ak, ak, ak."
"Aha!" shouted the peasant, quite angry. "If you think that you know  better than I do, then count it yourselves," and he threw all the money at  them into the water. He stood still, wanting to stay there until they were  finished and had returned his money to him, but the frogs did not budge  from their opinion, and continued to cry out, "ak, ak, ak, ak." And  furthermore, they did not throw the money back to him.
He waited a long time, until evening finally came, and he had to go  home. Then he cursed the frogs, shouting at them, "You water-splashers,  you thick-heads, you goggle-eyes, you have big mouths and can shout until  a person's ears hurt, but you cannot count seven talers. Do you think that  I want to stand here until you are finished?"
Then he walked away, with the frogs still crying out after him, "ak,  ak, ak, ak." He arrived at home in a sour mood.
Some time later he bought himself another cow, which he slaughtered. He  calculated that if he sold the meat for a good price, he could earn as  much as the two cows had been worth together, and have the hide as well.
He went to town with the meat. An entire pack of dogs had gathered  together just outside the town gate, with a large greyhound at the head of  the pack. The greyhound jumped at the meat, sniffing and barking, "bow,  wow, bow, wow."
When the dog would not stop, the peasant said to him, "Yes, I  understand that you are saying, "bow, wow," because you want some of the  meat, but I would be in a fine state if I gave it to you."
The dog's only answer was, "bow, wow."
"Will you not eat it all up, and will you be responsible for your  companions?"
"Bow, wow, " said the dog.
"Well, if you insist on it, I will leave it with you. I know you well,  and I know who your master is. But I am telling you, I must have my money  in three days, or you will be sorry. You can just bring it out to me."
With this he unloaded the meat and turned back toward home. The dogs  jumped on the meat, barking loudly, "bow, wow."
The peasant heard them from afar and said to himself, "Listen, they all  want some, but the big dog will be responsible for it."
When three days had passed, the peasant thought, "Tonight you'll have  the money in your pocket," and was quite satisfied. But no one came to pay  him.
"No one is to be trusted nowadays," he said.
Finally he lost his patience and went to town and to the butcher, from  whom he demanded his money. The butcher thought it was a joke, but the  peasant said, "All joking aside, I want my money. Did not the big dog  bring home to you an entire slaughtered cow three days ago?"
Then the butcher grew angry, picked up a broomstick and chased him out.
"Wait," said the peasant. "There is still some justice in the world,"  and he went to the royal palace and asked for a hearing. He was led before  the king, who was sitting there with his daughter. The king asked him what  injury he had suffered.
"Alas," he said, "the frogs and the dogs stole my belongings from me,  and the butcher paid me for my losses with a stick." Then he told them  everything that had happened.
At this the king's daughter began to laugh out loud, and the king said  to him, "I cannot make that right for you, but instead you shall have my  daughter for your wife. She had never laughed before in her whole life,  until just now at you, and I have promised her to the man who could make  her laugh. You can thank God for your good fortune."
"Oh," answered the peasant, "I do not want her. I have one wife at home  already, and she is too much for me. Whenever I go home, it is just as if  I had a wife standing in every corner."
Then the king grew angry, and said, "You are a lout."
"Alas, your majesty," answered the peasant, "what can you expect from  an ox, but beef?"
"Wait," replied the king. "You shall have another reward. Get out of  here for now, but come back in three days, and then five hundred shall be  counted out for you in full."
When the peasant passed through the gate, the sentry said, "You made  the king's daughter laugh, so you must have received something very good."
"Yes, that is right," answered the peasant. "Five hundred are to be  counted out to me."
"Listen," said the soldier. "Give me some of it. How can you spend all  that money?"
"Because it is you," said the peasant, "you shall have two hundred. In  three days report to the king, and have it counted out for you."
A Jew, who had been standing nearby and had overheard the conversation,  ran after the peasant, took hold of his coat, and said, "Miracle of God,  what a child of fortune you are! I will change it for you. I will change  it for you into smaller coins. What do you want with hard talers?"
"Jew," said the peasant, "You can have three hundred. Give it to me  right now in coins. Three days from now you will be paid for it by the  king."
The Jew was delighted with his small profit, and brought the sum in bad  groschens, three of which were worth two good ones. After three days had  passed, in keeping with the king's order, the peasant went before the  king.
"Pull off his coat," said the king "He shall have his five hundred."
"Alas," said the peasant, "they no longer belong to me. I gave two  hundred of them to the sentry, and the Jew has changed three hundred for  me, so rightfully nothing more belongs to me."
In the meantime the soldier and the Jew entered and demanded what they  had received from the peasant, and they received the blows carefully  counted out.
The soldier bore it patiently, for he already knew how it tasted, but  the Jew cried out pitifully, "Oh my, oh my, are these the hard  talers?"
The king had to laugh at the peasant, and when his anger had subsided,  he said, "Because you lost your reward even before you received it, I will  replace it for you. Go into my treasure chamber and take as much money for  yourself as you want."
The peasant did not need to be told twice, and he stuffed as much as  would fit into his big pockets. After that he went to an inn and counted  out his money.
The Jew had crept after him and heard him muttering to himself, "That  rascal of a king has cheated me after all. If he himself had given me the  money, then I would know how much I have. Now how can I know if what I had  the luck to put into my pockets is right?"
"God forbid," said the Jew to himself, "he is speaking disrespectfully  of his majesty. I will run and report him, and then I shall get a reward,  and furthermore he will be punished."
When the king heard what the peasant had said he fell into a rage, and  ordered the Jew to go and bring the offender to him.
The Jew ran to the peasant and said, "You are to go to his majesty the  king at once, and just as you are."
"I know better than that what is right," answered the peasant. "First  let me have a new coat made for myself. Do you think that a man with so  much money in his pockets should go before the king in this tattered old  coat?"
The Jew, seeing that the peasant could not be moved without another  coat, and fearing that if the king's anger cooled, he himself would lose  his reward, and the peasant his punishment, said, "Out of pure friendship  I will lend you a handsome coat for a little while. What people will not  do for love!"
The peasant was satisfied with this, put on the Jew's coat, and went  off with him.
The king confronted the peasant with the evil things the Jew had  accused him of saying.
"Oh," said the peasant, "what a Jew says is always a lie. No true word  ever comes out of his mouth. That rascal there is even capable of claiming  that I have his coat on."
"What are you saying?" shouted the Jew. "Is that coat not mine? Did I  not lend it to you out of pure friendship, so that you could appear before  his majesty the king?"
When the king heard this, he said, "For sure the Jew has deceived one  of us, either myself or the peasant." And once again he had the Jew paid  out in hard talers.
The peasant, however, went home wearing the good coat and with the good  money in his pockets, saying to himself, "This time I made it."

The Strange Musician

Then he took his fiddle from his back, and played a tune that sounded  through the trees.
Before long a wolf came trotting through the thicket toward him.
"Ah, a wolf is coming. I have no desire for him," said the musician,  but the wolf came nearer and said to him, "Ah, dear musician, you play  very well. I too would like to learn to play."
"You can learn quickly," answered the musician. "You will only have to  do what I tell you."
"Oh, musician," said the wolf, "I will obey you like a pupil obeys his  teacher."
The musician told him to come along with him, and when they had walked  some distance together, they came to an old oak tree. It was hollow inside  and split up the middle.
"Look," said the musician, "if you want learn to play the fiddle, put  your forepaws into this crack."
The wolf obeyed, and the musician quickly picked up a stone, and with  one blow wedged his two paws so firmly that he had to stay lying there  like a prisoner.
"Wait here until I return," said the musician, and went on his way.
After a while he again said to himself, "It is boring here in the  woods. I will get myself another companion."
He took his fiddle and again played into the woods. Before long a fox  came creeping through the trees toward him.
"Ah, a fox is coming," said the musician. "I have no desire for him."
The fox came up to him and said, "Oh, dear musician, you play very  well. I too would like to learn to play."
"You can learn quickly," said the musician. "You will only have to do  what I tell you."
"Oh, musician," answered the fox, "I will obey you like a pupil obeys  his teacher."
"Follow me," said the musician, and when they had gone some distance  together, they came to a footpath with tall saplings on both sides. There  the musician stood still, and from one side he bent a young hazelnut tree  down to the ground and put his foot on the end of it. Then he bent down  another young tree from the other side, and said, "Now little fox, if you  want to learn something, give me your left front paw."
The fox obeyed, and the musician tied his paw to the left stem. "Little  fox," he said, "now give me your right paw."
He tied this one to the right stem. After making sure that the knots in  the cord were tight enough, he let go. The trees sprang upright and jerked  the little fox upward, leaving him hanging there struggling in the air.
"Wait here until I return," said the musician, and went on his way.
Once again he said to himself, "It is boring here in the woods. I will  get myself another companion. So he took his fiddle, and music sounded  through the woods. Then a little hare came jumping toward him.
"Ah, a hare is coming," said the musician. "I do not want him."
"Oh, dear musician," said the hare, "You play very well. I too would  like to learn to play."
"You can learn quickly," said the musician. "You will only have to do  what I tell you."
"Oh, musician," replied the little hare, "I will obey you like a pupil  obeys his teacher."
When they had gone some distance together, they came to an aspen tree  in a clearing in the woods. The musician tied a long string around the  little hare's neck, then tied the other end of the string to the tree.
"Now quickly, little hare, run twenty times around the tree," shouted  the musician, and the little hare obeyed. When he had run around twenty  times, he had wound the string twenty times around the trunk of the tree,  and the little hare was caught. The more the hare tugged and pulled, the  more the string cut into his tender neck.
"Wait here until I return," said the musician, and went on his way.
The wolf, in the meantime, had pushed and pulled and bitten at the  stone, and had worked so long that he freed his feet from the crack. Full  of anger and rage he rushed after the musician, wanting to tear him to  pieces.
When the fox saw him running by, he began to wail, crying out with all  his might, "Brother wolf, come help me. The musician has tricked me."
The wolf pulled down the trees, bit the cord in two, and freed the fox,  who went with him to take revenge on the musician. They found the tied-up  hare, whom they rescued as well, then all together they set forth to find  their enemy.
The musician had played his fiddle once again as he went on his way,  and this time he had been more fortunate. The sound reached the ears of a  poor woodcutter, who instantly, whether he wanted to or not, stopped  working and, with his ax under his arm, came toward the musician to listen  to the music.
"At last the right companion is coming," said the musician, "for I was  seeking a human being, not wild animals." And he began to play so  beautifully and delightfully that the poor man stood there enraptured, his  heart filled with pleasure.
While he was thus standing there, the wolf, the fox, and the hare  approached. He saw well that they had evil intentions, so he raised his  shining axe and placed himself before the musician, as if to say, "Anyone  who wants to harm him beware, for he will have to deal with me."
Then the beasts took fright and ran back into the woods. The musician,  however, played one more tune for the man to thank him, and then went on  his way.

The Twelve Brothers

Indeed, he had twelve coffins made. They were filled with wood shavings  and each was fitted with a coffin pillow. He had them put in a locked  room, and gave the key to the queen, ordering her to tell no one about  them.
The mother sat and mourned the entire day, until the youngest son --  who was always with her, and who was named Benjamin after the Bible --  said to her, "Dear mother, why are you so sad?"
"Dearest child," she answered, "I cannot tell you."
However, he would not leave her in peace, until she unlocked the room  and showed him the coffins, already filled with wood shavings.
Then she said, "My dearest Benjamin, your father had these coffins made  for you and your eleven brothers. If I bring a girl into the world, you  are all to be killed and buried in them."
As she spoke and cried, her son comforted her, saying, "Don't cry, dear  mother. We will take care of ourselves and run away."
Then she said, "Go out into the woods with your eleven brothers. One of  you should climb the highest tree that you can find. Keep watch there and  look toward the castle tower. If I give birth to a little son, I will  raise a white flag. If I give birth to a little daughter, I will raise a  red flag, and then you should escape as fast as you can, and may God  protect you. I will get up every night and pray for you, in the winter  that you may warm yourselves near a fire, and in the summer that you may  not suffer from the heat."
After she had blessed her children, they went out into the woods. One  after the other of them kept watch, sitting atop the highest oak tree and  looking toward the tower. After eleven days had passed, and it was  Benjamin's turn, he saw that a flag had been raised. It was not the white  one, but instead the red blood-flag, decreeing that they all were to die.
When the boys heard this they became angry and cried out, "Are we to  suffer death for the sake of a girl! We swear that we will take revenge.  Wherever we find a girl, her red blood shall flow."
Then they went deeper into the woods, and in its middle, where it was  darkest, they found a little bewitched house that was empty.
They said, "We will live here. You, Benjamin, you are the youngest and  weakest. You shall stay at home and keep house. We others will go and get  things to eat."
Thus they went into the woods and shot rabbits, wild deer, birds, and  doves, and whatever they could eat. These they brought to Benjamin, and he  had to prepare them to satisfy their hunger. They lived together in this  little house for ten years, but the time passed quickly for them.
The little daughter that their mother, the queen, had given birth to  was now grown up. She had a good heart, a beautiful face, and a golden  star on her forehead.
Once on a large washday she saw twelve men's shirts in the laundry and  asked her mother, "Whose are these twelve shirts? They are much too small  for father."
The queen answered with a heavy heart, "Dear child, they belong to your  twelve brothers."
The girl said, "Where are my twelve brothers? I have never even heard  of them."
She answered, "Only God knows where they are. They are wandering about  in the world."
Then she took the girl, unlocked the room for her, and showed her the  twelve coffins with the wood shavings and the coffin pillows.
"These coffins," she said, "were intended for your brothers, but they  secretly ran away before you were born," and she told her how everything  had happened.
Then the girl said, "Dear mother, don't cry. I will go and look for my  brothers."
Then she took the twelve shirts and went forth into the great woods.  She walked the entire day, in the evening coming to the bewitched little  house.
She went inside and found a young lad, who asked, "Where do you come  from, and where are you going?"
He was astounded that she was so beautiful, that she was wearing royal  clothing, and that she had a star on her forehead.
"I am a princess and am looking for my twelve brothers. I will walk on  as long as the sky is blue, until I find them." She also showed him the  twelve shirts that belonged to them.
Benjamin saw that it was his sister, and said, "I am Benjamin, your  youngest brother."
She began to cry for joy, and Benjamin did so as well. They kissed and  embraced one another with great love.
Then he said, "Dear sister, I must warn you that we have agreed that  every girl whom we meet must die."
She said, "I will gladly die, if I can thus redeem my twelve brothers."
"No," he answered, "you shall not die. Sit under this tub until our  eleven brothers come, and I will make it right with them."
She did this, and when night fell they came home from the hunt. As they  sat at the table eating, they asked, "What is new?"
Benjamin said, "Don't you know anything?"
"No," they answered.
He continued speaking, "You have been in the woods while I stayed at  home, but I know more than you do."
"Then tell us," they shouted.
He answered, "If you will promise me that the next girl we meet shall  not be killed."
"Yes," they all shouted. "We will show her mercy. Just tell us."
Then he said, "Our sister is here," and lifted up the tub. The princess  came forth in her royal clothing and with the golden star on her forehead,  so beautiful, delicate, and fine.
They all rejoiced, falling around her neck and kissing her, and they  loved her with all their hearts.
Now she stayed at home with Benjamin and helped him with the work. The  eleven went into the woods and captured wild game, deer, birds, and doves,  so they would have something to eat. Their sister and Benjamin prepared it  all. They gathered wood for cooking, herbs for the stew, and put the pot  onto the fire so a meal was always ready when the eleven came home. She  also kept the house in order, and made up the beds white and clean. The  brothers were always satisfied, and they lived happily with her.
One time the two of them had prepared a good meal at home, and so they  sat together and ate and drank and were ever so happy. Now there was a  little garden next to the bewitched house, and in it there were twelve  lilies, the kind that are called "students." Wanting to bring some  pleasure to her brothers, she picked the twelve flowers, intending to give  one to each of them when they were eating. But in the same instant that  she picked the flowers, the twelve brothers were transformed into twelve  ravens, and they flew away above the woods. The house and the garden  disappeared as well.
Now the poor girl was alone in the wild woods. Looking around, she saw  an old women standing next to her.
The old woman said, "My child, what have you done?" Why did you not  leave the twelve white flowers standing? Those were your brothers, and now  they have been transformed into ravens forever."
The girl said, crying, "Is there no way to redeem them?"
"No," said the old woman, "There is only one way in the world, and it  is so difficult that you will never redeem them. You must remain silent  for seven whole years, neither speaking nor laughing. If you speak a  single word, even if all but one hour of the seven years has passed, then  it will all be for nothing, and your brothers will be killed by that one  word."
Then the girl said in her heart, "I know for sure that I will redeem my  brothers."
She went and found a tall tree and climbed to its top, where she sat  and span, without speaking and without laughing.
Now it came to pass that a king was hunting in these woods. He had a  large greyhound that ran to the tree where the girl was sitting. It jumped  about, yelping and barking up the tree. The king came, saw the beautiful  princess with the golden star on her forehead, and was so enchanted by her  beauty that he shouted up to her, asking her to become his wife. She gave  him no answer, but nodded with her head. Then he himself climbed the tree,  carried her down, set her on his horse, and took her home with him.
Their wedding was celebrated with great pomp and joy, but the bride  neither spoke nor laughed.
After they had lived a few years happily together, the king's mother,  who was a wicked woman, began to slander the young queen, saying to the  king, "You have brought home a common beggar woman for yourself. Who knows  what kind of godless things she is secretly doing. Even if she is a mute  and cannot speak, she could at least laugh. Anyone who does not laugh has  an evil conscience."
At first the king did not want to believe this, but the old woman kept  it up so long, accusing her of so many wicked things, that the king  finally let himself be convinced, and he sentenced her to death.
A great fire was lit in the courtyard, where she was to be burned to  death. The king stood upstairs at his window, looking on with crying eyes,  for he still loved her dearly. She had already been bound to the stake,  and the fire was licking at her clothing with its red tongues, when the  last moment of the seven years passed.
A whirring sound was heard in the air, and twelve ravens approached,  landing together. As they touched the earth, it was her twelve brothers,  whom she had redeemed. They ripped the fire apart, put out the flames, and  freed their sister, kissing and embracing her.
Now that she could open her mouth and speak, she told the king why she  had remained silent and had never laughed.
The king rejoiced to hear that she was innocent, and they all lived  happily together until they died. The wicked stepmother was brought before  the court and placed in a barrel filled with boiling oil and poisonous  snakes, and she died an evil death.

The Pack of Scoundrels

"Yes," answered the hen. "Come, let us go and have some fun together.
Together they went up the mountain, and since it was a clear day, they stayed until evening.
Now I don't know whether it was because they had overeaten, or they were just in high spirits, but -- to make a long story short -- they did not want to go back home on foot, so the rooster had to make a little carriage out of nutshells.
When it was finished, the hen sat down in it and said to the rooster, "You can hitch yourself to it."
"You are dreaming!" said the rooster. "I would rather go home on foot than have myself hitched up. That was not our agreement. I want to be the coachman and sit in the driver's seat. I am not going to pull it."
While they were quarreling about this, a duck came quacking by. "You thieves, who invited you to my nut mountain? Wait! You'll be sorry!" And with an open beak she attacked the rooster.
The rooster did not take this lying down. Jumping furiously onto the duck, he hacked at her so fiercely with one of his spurs that she begged for mercy, and as punishment she had to accept being hitched to the carriage.
So the rooster sat in the driver's seat and was the coachman, and away they sped.
"Run, duck! Run as fast as you can!"
After they had traveled a little way they met two people on foot, a pin and a needle.
"Stop! Stop!" shouted the pin and the needle, saying that soon it would be pitch dark, and they would not be able to walk another step. Moreover, the road was very dirty. They asked if they would not be able to climb inside for a little way, explaining that they had been at the tailor's tavern just outside the town gate, and that they had sat there too long over their beer.
Seeing that they were thin people and would not take up much room, the rooster let them both climb in, although they did have to promise that they would not step on his or on the hen's feet.
Late that evening they came to an inn, where they turned in, not wanting to drive any further into the night. Furthermore, the duck's feet were not doing well, and she was waddling from one side to the other.
At first the innkeeper did not want to receive them. He said that his inn was already full, but he was also thinking that these were not very respectable people. They begged him with their kindest words, offering to give him the egg that the hen had laid on the way, and telling him that he could keep the duck, who laid an egg every day. Finally he said that they could spend the night there.
They ordered food and drink, and had a high time.
Early the next morning, just as it was getting light, and everyone was still asleep, the rooster woke up the hen. They got the egg, pecked it open, and ate it together, throwing the shells into the fireplace. Then they went to the needle, who was still asleep, grabbed it by the head, and stuck it into the innkeeper's seat cushion. They stuck the pin into his towel, and then without further ado they fled across the heath.
The duck, who preferred to sleep under the open sky, had spent the night in the courtyard, and she heard them sneaking away. She forced herself to wake up, found a brook, and swam away downstream, much faster than she had traveled in front of the carriage.
A few hours later the innkeeper climbed out of the feathers, washed himself, and started to dry off on the towel when the pin went across his face, leaving a red streak from one ear to the other. Then he went into the kitchen. He wanted to light his pipe, but as he approached the fireplace, the eggshells sprang into his eyes.
"Everything is after my head today," he said, sitting down crossly in the grandfather chair, but he jumped up immediately, shouting, "Ouch!" The needle had stuck him even worse, and not in the head.
Now he was totally angry. Suspecting the guests who had arrived so late yesterday evening, he went to look for them, but they were gone.
He then vowed never again to take in such a pack of scoundrels who eat and drink a lot, pay nothing, and for thanks play mean tricks.

Little Brother and Little Sister

They walked the whole day over meadows, fields, and stones. And when it  rained the little sister said, "God and our hearts are crying together!"
In the evening they came to a large forest, and they were so tired from  sorrow and hunger and from the long walk that they climbed into a hollow  tree and fell asleep. The next day when they awoke the sun was already  high in the sky and shone hotly down into the tree.
Then the brother said, "Sister, I am thirsty. If I knew of a little  spring I would go and get a drink. I think I hear one."
The brother got up and took his sister by the hand to try to find the  spring.
Now the wicked stepmother was a witch, and she had seen how the two  children had gone away, and had secretly crept after them, as witches do,  and she had bewitched all the springs in the woods.
They found a spring, glistening as it ran over the stones. The brother  was about to drink from it, but his sister heard how its rushing sound  said, "Whoever drinks from me will become a tiger. Whoever drinks from me  will become a tiger."
Then the sister cried out, "Please, brother, do not drink, or you will  become a wild animal and tear me to pieces."
The brother did not drink, although he was very thirsty, but said, "I  will wait for the next spring."
When they came to the second spring the sister heard it say as well,  "Whoever drinks from me will become a wolf. Whoever drinks from me will  become a wolf."
Then the sister cried out, "Please, brother, do not drink, or you will  become a wolf and eat me up."
The brother did not drink, and said, "I will wait until we come to the  next spring, but then I must drink, say what you will, for I am very  thirsty."
When they came to the third spring the sister heard how its rushing  sound said, "Whoever drinks from me will become a deer. Whoever drinks  from me will become a deer."
The sister said, "Oh, brother, do not drink, or you will become a deer  and run away from me."
But the brother had already knelt down by the spring, leaned over, and  drunk from the water. As soon as the first drops touched his lips he lay  there in the form of a young deer.
Now the sister cried over her poor bewitched brother, and the deer  cried also, sitting sadly next to her.
Finally the girl said, "Be quiet, my sweet little deer. I will never,  never leave you."
She took off her golden garter and put it around the deer's neck. Then  she picked some rushes and wove them into a soft cord. This she tied to  the little animal and led it onward, walking deeper and deeper into the  woods.
After they had walked a long, long way they finally came to a little  house. The girl looked in, and because it was empty, she thought, "We can  stay here and live."
She found leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the deer. Every  morning she went out and gathered roots, berries, and nuts for herself,  and brought tender grass for the little deer, who ate out of her hand, and  was contented and played around about her. In the evening, when the sister  was tired and had said her prayers, she laid her head on the deer's back  for a pillow, and gently fell asleep. If only the brother had had his  human form, it would have been a wonderful life.
For some time they were alone like this in the wilderness. Then it  happened that the king of the country held a great hunt in these woods.  The blasts of the horns, the barking of the dogs, and the merry shouts of  the huntsmen sounded through the trees. The little deer heard this and  wanted ever so much to be with them.
"Oh," he said to his sister, "let me go and join the hunt. I cannot  resist it any longer." He begged so long that she finally agreed.
"But," she said she to him, "come back to me in the evening. I must  lock the door to keep the wild huntsmen out. To let me know that it's you,  knock and say, 'My little sister, let me in.' If you do not say that, I  will not unlock the door."
Then the young deer jumped away. He felt so good and was so happy to be  in the open air. The king and his huntsmen saw the beautiful animal and  started after him, but they could not catch him, and whenever they thought  that they surely had him, he jumped away over the bushes and disappeared.
When it was dark he ran to the little house, knocked, and said, "My  little sister, let me in."
She opened the door for him, and he jumped inside and rested all night  on his soft bed.
The next day the hunt began anew, and when the little deer again heard  the hunting horn and the huntsmen's shouts, he could not resist, but said,  "Sister, open the door for me. I must be off."
His sister opened the door for him, saying, "But this evening you must  be here again and say the password."
When the king and his huntsmen again saw the young deer with his golden  collar, they all chased after him, but he was too fast and nimble for  them. And so it went the entire day, but as evening fell, the huntsmen had  surrounded him, and one of them wounded him a little in the foot, causing  him to limp. Slowly, he ran away.
A huntsman crept after him to the little house and heard how he called  out, "My little sister, let me in," and saw that someone opened the door  for him, and then immediately shut it again. The huntsman took notice of  all this, then went to the king and told him what he had seen and heard.
Then the king said, "Tomorrow we will continue with our hunt."
The little sister, however, was terribly frightened when she saw that  her young deer was wounded. She washed the blood off him, applied herbs,  and said, "Go to bed, my sweet deer, so that you will get well again."
But the wound was so slight that the next morning the deer no longer  felt it. And when he again heard the merry sound of the hunt outside, he  said, "I cannot resist it. I must be there. They'll never get me."
Crying, the sister said, "This time they will kill you, and I will be  alone in the woods, forsaken by the whole world. I will not let you out."
"Then I will die here from grief," answered the deer. "When I hear the  hunting horn I feel that I have to jump out of my shoes!"
Then the sister could not help herself, and with a heavy heart she  unlocked the door for him. The deer vigorously and joyfully bounded off  into the woods.
When the king saw him he said to his huntsmen, "Chase after him all day  long and into the night, but take care that no one does him any harm."
As soon as the sun had set the king said to the huntsman, "Now come and  show me the little house in the woods."
When he came to the door he knocked and called out, "Dear little  sister, let me in."
The door opened, and the king walked in, and there stood a girl who was  more beautiful than any girl he had ever seen. The girl was frightened  when she saw that it was not her deer, but a man wearing a golden crown on  his head who came in.
However, the king looked kindly at her, reached out his hand to her,  and said, "Will you go with me to my castle and be my dear wife?"
"Oh, yes," answered the girl, "but the little deer must go with me. I  cannot leave him."
The king said, "He shall stay with you as long as you live, and he  shall want nothing."
Just then he came bounding in, and the sister again tied him to the  cord of rushes. She herself took hold of it and walked out of the little  house with him.
The king lifted the beautiful girl onto his horse and took her to his  castle, where their wedding was held with great splendor. She was now the  queen, and they lived happily together for a long time. The deer was cared  for and cherished, and ran about in the castle garden.
Now the wicked stepmother who had caused the children to go out into  the world thought that the sister had been torn to pieces by wild animals  in the woods, and that the brother, as a deer, had been killed by the  huntsmen. When she heard that they were happy and well off, envy and  hatred filled her heart, leaving her no peace. Her only thoughts were how  she could bring about their downfall.
Her own daughter, who was ugly as night and had only one eye,  complained to her, saying, "I am the one who should have become queen."
"Just be quiet," answered the old woman, then comforted her by saying,  "When the time comes I shall be at hand."
As time went by the queen brought a handsome little boy into the world.  It happened at a time when the king was out hunting. Then the old witch  took the form of the chambermaid, went into the room where the queen was  lying and said to her, "Come, your bath is ready. It will do you good and  give you fresh strength. Hurry, before it gets cold."
The witch's daughter was also nearby. They carried the weak queen into  the bathroom and put her into the tub. Then they locked the door shut and  ran away. Now they had made a fire of such hellish heat in the bathroom  that the beautiful young queen soon suffocated.
When this was done the old woman took her daughter, put a nightcap on  her head, and laid her in the queen's bed. Furthermore, she gave her the  form and appearance of the queen, but she could not replace the lost eye.  So that the king would not notice it, the witch's daughter was to lie on  the side where she had no eye.
In the evening when the king came home and heard that he had a little  son he was delighted. He was about to go to his dear wife's bed to see how  she was, when the old woman quickly called out, "You must leave the  curtains closed. The queen is not yet permitted to look into the light,  and she must have her rest."
The king went away, not knowing that a false queen was lying there in  her bed. At midnight when everyone was asleep, the nurse who was sitting  in the nursery by the cradle, and who was the only one still awake, saw  the door open and the true queen walk in. She took the child from the  cradle, laid him on her arm, and nursed him. Then she fluffed up his  pillow, laid him back down, and covered him with his little quilt. And she  did not forget the deer, but went to the corner where he was lying and  stroked his back. Then she went back out through the door without saying a  word.
The next morning the nurse asked the watchmen whether anyone had come  into the castle during the night, and they answered, "No, we did not see  anyone."
In this manner she came many nights, never speaking a word. The nurse  saw her every time, but she did not dare to tell anyone about it. After  some time had thus passed, the queen began to speak in the night, saying,  "How is my child? How is my deer? I shall come two more times, then never  again."
The nurse did not answer her, but when the queen had disappeared again,  she went to the king and told him everything.
The king said, "Good heaven, what is this? Tomorrow night I will keep  watch by the child."
That evening he went into the nursery, and at midnight the queen again  appeared and said, "How is my child? How is my deer? I shall come one more  time, then never again."
She nursed the child as she had done before, and then disappeared.
The king did not dare to speak to her, but on the following night he  kept watch again. Once again she said, "How is my child? How is my deer? I  come this one time, then never again."
Now the king could not restrain himself. He jumped towards her, saying,  "You can only be my dear wife."
She answered, "Yes, I am your dear wife," and in that moment, by the  grace of God, she came back to life, fresh, vibrant, and healthy.
She told the king about the crime that the wicked witch and her  daughter had committed against her. The king ordered both to be brought  before the court, and a judgment was pronounced against them. The daughter  was led into the woods where she was torn to pieces by wild animals, and  the witch was thrown into a fire where she miserably burned to death. And  as soon as she had burned to ashes, the deer was transformed, and he  received his human form again. And the sister and the brother lived  happily together until they died.

Rapunzel

One day the woman was standing at this window, and she saw a bed planted with the most beautiful rapunzel. It looked so fresh and green that she longed for some. It was her greatest desire to eat some of the rapunzel. This desire increased with every day, and not knowing how to get any, she became miserably ill.
Her husband was frightened, and asked her, "What ails you, dear wife?"
"Oh," she answered, "if I do not get some rapunzel from the garden behind our house, I shall die."
The man, who loved her dearly, thought, "Before you let your wife die, you must get her some of the rapunzel, whatever the cost."
So just as it was getting dark he climbed over the high wall into the sorceress's garden, hastily dug up a handful of rapunzel, and took it to his wife. She immediately made a salad from it, which she devoured eagerly. It tasted so very good to her that by the next day her desire for more had grown threefold. If she were to have any peace, the man would have to climb into the garden once again. Thus he set forth once again just as it was getting dark. But no sooner than he had climbed over the wall than, to his horror, he saw the sorceress standing there before him.
"How can you dare," she asked with an angry look, "to climb into my garden and like a thief to steal my rapunzel? You will pay for this."
"Oh," he answered, "Let mercy overrule justice. I came to do this out of necessity. My wife saw your rapunzel from our window, and such a longing came over her, that she would die, if she did not get some to eat."
The sorceress's anger abated somewhat, and she said, "If things are as you say, I will allow you to take as much rapunzel as you want. But under one condition: You must give me the child that your wife will bring to the world. It will do well, and I will take care of it like a mother."
In his fear the man agreed to everything.
When the woman gave birth, the sorceress appeared, named the little girl Rapunzel, and took her away. Rapunzel became the most beautiful child under the sun. When she was twelve years old, the fairy locked her in a tower that stood in a forest and that had neither a door nor a stairway, but only a tiny little window at the very top.
When the sorceress wanted to enter, she stood below and called out:
A few years later it happened that a king's son was riding through the forest. As he approached the tower he heard a song so beautiful that he stopped to listen. It was Rapunzel, who was passing the time by singing with her sweet voice. The prince wanted to climb up to her, and looked for a door in the tower, but none was to be found.
He rode home, but the song had so touched his heart that he returned to the forest every day and listened to it. One time, as he was thus standing behind a tree, he saw the sorceress approach, and heard her say:
"If that is the ladder into the tower, then sometime I will try my luck."
And the next day, just as it was beginning to get dark, he went to the tower and called out:
At first Rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man such as she had never seen before came in to her. However, the prince began talking to her in a very friendly manner, telling her that his heart had been so touched by her singing that he could have no peace until he had seen her in person. Then Rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take him as her husband, she thought, "He would rather have me than would old Frau Gothel." She said yes and placed her hand into his.
She said, "I would go with you gladly, but I do not know how to get down. Every time that you come, bring a strand of silk, from which I will weave a ladder. When it is finished I will climb down, and you can take me away on your horse." They arranged that he would come to her every evening, for the old woman came by day.
The sorceress did not notice what was happening until one day Rapunzel said to her, "Frau Gothel, tell me why it is that you are more difficult to pull up than is the young prince, who will be arriving any moment now?"
"You godless child," cried the sorceress. "What am I hearing from you? I thought I had removed you from the whole world, but you have deceived me nonetheless."
In her anger she grabbed Rapunzel's beautiful hair, wrapped it a few times around her left hand, grasped a pair of scissors with her right hand, and snip snap, cut it off. And she was so unmerciful that she took Rapunzel into a wilderness where she suffered greatly.
On the evening of the same day that she sent Rapunzel away, the fairy tied the cut-off hair to the hook at the top of the tower, and when the prince called out:
The prince climbed up, but above, instead of his beloved Rapunzel, he found the sorceress, who peered at him with poisonous and evil looks.
"Aha!" she cried scornfully. "You have come for your Mistress Darling, but that beautiful bird is no longer sitting in her nest, nor is she singing any more. The cat got her, and will scratch your eyes out as well. You have lost Rapunzel. You will never see her again."
The prince was overcome with grief, and in his despair he threw himself from the tower. He escaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell poked out his eyes. Blind, he wandered about in the forest, eating nothing but grass and roots, and doing nothing but weeping and wailing over the loss of his beloved wife. Thus he wandered about miserably for some years, finally happening into the wilderness where Rapunzel lived miserably with the twins that she had given birth to.
He heard a voice and thought it was familiar. He advanced toward it, and as he approached, Rapunzel recognized him, and crying, threw her arms around his neck. Two of her tears fell into his eyes, and they became clear once again, and he could see as well as before. He led her into his kingdom, where he was received with joy, and for a long time they lived happily and satisfied.
Return to D. L. Ashliman's folktexts, a library of folktales, folklore, fairy tales, and mythology.


The Three Little Men in the Woods

The woman said to the man's daughter, "Listen, tell your father that I  would like to marry him, and then you shall wash yourself in milk every  morning and drink wine, but my own daughter shall wash herself in water  and drink water."
The girl went home and told her father what the woman had said.
The man said, "What shall I do? Marriage is a joy, but also a torment."
Finally, being unable to reach a decision, he pulled off his boot and  said, "Take this boot. It has a hole in its sole. Take it to the attic,  hang it on the big nail, and then pour water into it. If it holds the  water, then I shall again take a wife, but if the water runs through it,  then I shall not."
The girl did as she was told, but the water pulled the hole shut, and the  boot filled up to the top. She told her father what had happened. Then he  himself went up, and when he saw that she was right, he went to the widow  and wooed her, and the wedding was held.
The next morning when the two girls got up, there was milk for the man's  daughter to wash in and wine for her to drink, but there was water for the  woman's daughter to wash herself with and water for her to drink. On the  second morning there was water for washing and water to drink for the  man's daughter as well as for the woman's daughter. And on the third  morning there was water for washing and water to drink for the man's  daughter, and milk for washing and wine to drink for the woman's daughter,  and so it continued.
The woman became her stepdaughter's worst enemy, and from one day to the  next she did whatever she could to make the stepdaughter's life more  miserable. Furthermore, she was envious because her stepdaughter was  beautiful and kind, while her own daughter was ugly and disgusting.
Once in winter, when everything was frozen as hard as a stone, and the  hills and valleys were covered with snow, the woman made a dress of paper,  called her stepdaughter, and said, "Here, put this dress on and go out  into the woods and fetch me a basketful of strawberries. I have a longing  for some."
"Good heaven." said the girl. "Strawberries don't grow in the winter. The  ground is frozen, and furthermore the snow has covered everything. And why  am I to go out in this paper dress? It is so cold outside that one's  breath freezes. The wind will blow through the dress, and the thorns will  tear it from my body."
"Will you contradict me?" said the stepmother. "Be on your way, and do not  let me see you again until you have the basketful of strawberries." Then  she gave her a little piece of hard bread and said, "You can eat from this  all day," while thinking, "You will freeze and starve to death out there,  and I shall never see you again."
The girl obeyed and put on the paper dress and went out with the basket.  There was nothing but snow far and wide, and not a green blade was to be  seen. After coming into the woods she saw a small house. Three little  dwarfs peeped out. She greeted them and gently knocked on the door.
They shouted, "Come in," and she went into the room and sat down on the  bench by the stove to warm herself and eat her breakfast.
The dwarfs said, "Give us some of it, too."
"Gladly," she said, and broke her piece of bread in two, giving them  half."
They asked, "What are you doing here in the woods in the wintertime and in  your thin dress."
"Oh," she answered, "I am supposed to gather a basketful of strawberries,  and am not allowed to go home until I have them."
When she had eaten her bread they gave her a broom and said, "Sweep away  the snow next to the back door."
Once she was outside, the three little men said to one another, "What  shall we give her for being so polite and good and sharing her bread with  us."
The first one said, "I grant her that every day she shall grow more  beautiful."
The second one said, "I grant her that gold pieces shall fall from her  mouth every time she speaks a word."
The third one said, "I grant her that a king shall come and take her to  wife."
The girl did what the dwarfs told her to, and with the broom she swept the  snow away from behind the little house, and what do you think she found?  Nothing other than ripe strawberries, which came up out of the snow quite  dark red. Joyfully she gathered her basketful, thanked the little men,  shook hands with each of them, then ran home to take her stepmother what  she had demanded.
Upon entering she said, "Good-evening," and a piece of gold fell out of  her mouth. Then she told what had happened to her in the woods, but with  every word she spoke gold pieces fell from her mouth, and soon the whole  room was covered with them.
"Just look at her arrogance," shouted the stepsister, "to throw gold about  in such a manner." But she was secretly envious, and she too wanted to go  into the woods to look for strawberries.
The mother said, "No, my dear little daughter, it is too cold. You could  freeze to death."
However, her daughter gave no peace, so finally the mother gave in. She  sewed a magnificent fur coat for her and had her put it on. She gave her  buttered bread and cake for her journey.
The girl went into the woods and straight up to the little house. The  three little dwarfs peeped out again, but she did not greet them. Without  looking at them and without greeting them, she stumbled into the room, sat  down by the stove, and began to eat her buttered bread and cake.
"Give us some of it," shouted the little men.
She replied, "There is not enough for me myself. How can I give some of it  to others?"
When she was finished eating they said, "Here is a broom for you. Sweep in  front of the back door."
"Sweep for yourselves," she answered. "I am not your maid."
Seeing that they were not going to give her anything, she walked out the  door.
Then the little men said to one another, "What shall we give her for being  so impolite and having a wicked and envious heart that will never let her  give a thing to anyone?"
The first one said, "I grant that every day she shall grow uglier."
The second one said, "I grant that a toad shall jump out of her mouth with  every word she says."
The third one said, "I grant that she shall die an unfortunate death."
The girl looked outside for strawberries, but finding none, she went home  angrily. And when she opened her mouth to tell her mother what had  happened to her in the woods, a toad jumped out of her mouth with every  word she said, so that everyone was repulsed by her.
The stepmother now became even more angry, and she could think of nothing  else but how she could torment the man's daughter, who nonetheless grew  more beautiful every day. Finally she took a kettle, set it on the fire,  and boiled yarn in it. When it was boiled, she hung it on the poor girl's  shoulder, gave her an ax, and told her to go to the frozen river, chop a  hole in the ice, and rinse the yarn. She obeyed, went to the river and  chopped a hole in the ice. While she was chopping, a splendid carriage  approached, with the king seated inside.
The carriage stopped, and the king asked, "My child, who are you, and what  are you doing here?"
"I am a poor girl, and I am rinsing yarn."
The king felt compassion, and when he saw how very beautiful she was, he  said to her, "Will you ride with me?"
"Gladly," she answered, for she was happy to get away from the mother and  sister.
So she got into the carriage and rode away with the king. When they  arrived at his palace their wedding was celebrated with great pomp, just  as the little men had promised the girl.
A year later the young queen gave birth to a son, and when the stepmother  heard of her good fortune, she came with her daughter to the palace,  pretending that she wanted to pay her a visit. But when the king went out,  and no one else was present, the wicked woman seized the queen by the  head, and her daughter seized her by the feet, and lifting her out of her  bed, they threw her out the window into the stream that flowed by.
After that the ugly daughter lay down in the bed, and the old woman  covered her up over her head. When the king returned and wanted to speak  to his wife, the old woman said, "Quiet. Quiet. You cannot talk to her  now. She has a very high fever. You must let her rest today."
The king suspected no evil, and did not return until the next morning. As  he then talked with his wife, and she answered him, a toad jumped out with  every word, whereas previously a piece of gold had fallen out. When he  asked what was the matter, the old woman said that it came from her high  fever, and that she would soon lose it.
During the night the kitchen boy saw a duck swimming along the gutter, and  it said, "King, what are you doing? Are you awake or are you asleep?"
Receiving no answer, it said, "What are my guests doing?"
Then the kitchen boy answered, "They are fast asleep."
She asked further, "What is my little baby doing?"
He answered, "He is sound asleep in his cradle."
Then, in the form of the queen, she went upstairs, nursed the baby,  fluffed up his cover, tucked him in, and then she swam off through the  gutter as a duck.
She came in the same manner for two nights. On the third night, she said  to the kitchen boy, "Go and tell the king to take his sword and on the  threshold to swing it over me three times."
The kitchen boy ran and told this to the king, who came with his sword and  swung it over the spirit three times, and after the third time, his wife  was standing before him, vigorous, alive, and healthy, as she had been  before.
The king was elated, but he kept the queen hidden in a room until the  Sunday when the baby was to be baptized. At the baptism he said, "What  does a person deserve who drags someone out of bed and throws him into the  water?"
The old woman answered, "The scoundrel deserves nothing better than to be  put into a barrel stuck full of nails, and then rolled downhill into the  water."
Then the king said, "You have pronounced your own sentence."
He ordered such a barrel to be brought. The old woman and her daughter  were put into it, and the top was hammered shut. Then the barrel was  rolled downhill until it fell into the river.

The Three Spinning Women

Now the queen was just driving by, and when she heard the crying she ordered her carriage to stop, went into the house, and asked the mother why she was beating her daughter so that her cries could be heard out on the road.
The woman was ashamed to reveal her daughter's laziness and said, "I cannot make her stop spinning. She wants to spin on and on forever, and I am poor, and cannot get the flax."
Then the queen answered, "There is nothing that I like better to hear than spinning. I am never happier than when the wheels are humming. Let your daughter come with me to the palace. I have flax enough. There she can spin to her heart's content."
The mother was completely satisfied with this, and the queen took the girl with her. Arriving at the palace, she took her upstairs to three rooms which were filled from the bottom to the top with the finest flax.
"Now spin this flax for me," she said, "and when you are finished, you shall have my oldest son for a husband. I do not mind if you are poor. Your untiring industry will do for a dowry."
The girl was frightened inside, for she would not be able to spin the flax, not even if she had lived until she was three hundred years old, sitting at it every day from morning until evening. When she was alone she began to cry, and just sat there for three days without moving a hand. On the third day the queen came, and when she saw that nothing had been spun yet, she was surprised. The girl excused herself by saying that because of her sorrow at being away from her mother's house, she had not yet been able to begin.
This satisfied the queen, but as she left she said, "Tomorrow you must begin my work."
When the girl was alone again, she did not know what to do, or where to turn for help. In her distress she went to the window. There she saw three women coming toward her. The first one had a broad flat foot, the second one had such a large lower lip that it hung down over her chin, and the third one had a broad thumb.
They stopped outside the window, looked up, and asked the girl what was wrong with her.
She bemoaned her troubles to them, upon which they offered her their help, saying, "If you will invite us to your wedding, not be ashamed of us, call us your aunts, and let us be seated at your table, we will spin all the flax for you, and in a very short time at that."
"With all my heart," she answered. "Come right in and begin the work at once."
Then she let the three strange women in, and cleared out a space in the first room where they could sit down and begin their spinning. The one pulled the thread and peddled the wheel, the second one moistened the thread, the third twisted it, then struck the table with her finger. Each time she struck, a skein of the most finely spun thread fell to the floor.
The girl kept the three spinners hidden from the queen, but whenever she came, the girl showed her the great quantity of thread that had been spun. The queen could not praise her enough.
When the first room was empty, they went to work on the second one, and on the third one, and it too was quickly cleaned out.
The three women now took leave and said to the girl, "Do not forget what you have promised us. It will bring you good luck."
When the girl showed the queen the empty rooms and the large pile of thread, the latter made preparations for the wedding. The bridegroom was happy that he was getting such a clever and industrious wife, and he praised her vigorously.
"I have three aunts," said the girl. "Because they have been very kind to me, I do not want to forget them in my good fortune. Allow me to invite them to the wedding, and let them be seated next to us at the table."
The queen and the bridegroom said, "Why should we not allow that?"
When the feast began, the three women, dressed in strange clothing, entered.
The bride said, "Welcome, dear aunts."
"Oh," said the bridegroom, "what brought you to this hideous friendship?"
Then he went to the one with the broad flat foot, and asked, "Where did you get such a broad foot?"
"From peddling," she answered. "From peddling."
Then the bridegroom went to the second one, and said, "Where did you get this fallen lip?"
"From licking," she answered. "From licking."
Then he asked the third one, "Where did you get this broad thumb?"
"From twisting thread," she answered. "From twisting thread."
This alarmed the prince, and he said, "My beautiful bride shall never again touch a spinning wheel."
With that she was freed from hateful flax spinning.

Hansel and Gretel

One evening as he was lying in bed worrying about his problems, he sighed and said to his wife, "What is to become of us? How can we feed our children when we have nothing for ourselves?"
"Man, do you know what?" answered the woman. "Early tomorrow morning we will take the two children out into the thickest part of the woods, make a fire for them, and give each of them a little piece of bread, then leave them by themselves and go off to our work. They will not find their way back home, and we will be rid of them."
"No, woman," said the man. "I will not do that. How could I bring myself to abandon my own children alone in the woods? Wild animals would soon come and tear them to pieces."
"Oh, you fool," she said, "then all four of us will starve. All you can do is to plane the boards for our coffins." And she gave him no peace until he agreed.
"But I do feel sorry for the poor children," said the man.
The two children had not been able to fall asleep because of their hunger, and they heard what the stepmother had said to the father.
Gretel cried bitter tears and said to Hansel, "It is over with us!"
"Be quiet, Gretel," said Hansel, "and don't worry. I know what to do."
And as soon as the adults had fallen asleep, he got up, pulled on his jacket, opened the lower door, and crept outside. The moon was shining brightly, and the white pebbles in front of the house were glistening like silver coins. Hansel bent over and filled his jacket pockets with them, as many as would fit.
Then he went back into the house and said, "Don't worry, Gretel. Sleep well. God will not forsake us." Then he went back to bed.
At daybreak, even before sunrise, the woman came and woke the two children. "Get up, you lazybones. We are going into the woods to fetch wood." Then she gave each one a little piece of bread, saying, "Here is something for midday. Don't eat it any sooner, for you'll not get any more."
Gretel put the bread under her apron, because Hansel's pockets were full of stones. Then all together they set forth into the woods. After they had walked a little way, Hansel began stopping again and again and looking back toward the house.
The father said, "Hansel, why are you stopping and looking back? Pay attention now, and don't forget your legs."
"Oh, father," said Hansel, "I am looking at my white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to say good-bye to me."
The woman said, "You fool, that isn't your cat. That's the morning sun shining on the chimney."
However, Hansel had not been looking at his cat but instead had been dropping the shiny pebbles from his pocket onto the path.
When they arrived in the middle of the woods, the father said, "You children gather some wood, and I will make a fire so you won't freeze."
Hansel and Gretel gathered together some twigs, a pile as high as a small mountain
The twigs were set afire, and when the flames were burning well, the woman said, "Lie down by the fire and rest. We will go into the woods to cut wood. When we are finished, we will come back and get you."
Hansel and Gretel sat by the fire. When midday came each one ate his little piece of bread. Because they could hear the blows of an ax, they thought that the father was nearby. However, it was not an ax. It was a branch that he had tied to a dead tree and that the wind was beating back and forth. After they had sat there a long time, their eyes grew weary and closed, and they fell sound sleep.
When they finally awoke, it was dark at night. Gretel began to cry and said, "How will we get out of woods?"
Hansel comforted her, "Wait a little until the moon comes up, and then we'll find the way."
After the full moon had come up, Hansel took his little sister by the hand. They followed the pebbles that glistened there like newly minted coins, showing them the way. They walked throughout the entire night, and as morning was breaking, they arrived at the father's house.
They knocked on the door, and when the woman opened it and saw that it was Hansel and Gretel, she said, "You wicked children, why did you sleep so long in the woods? We thought that you did not want to come back."
But the father was overjoyed when he saw his children once more, for he had not wanted to leave them alone.
Not long afterward there was once again great need everywhere, and one evening the children heard the mother say to the father, "We have again eaten up everything. We have only a half loaf of bread, and then the song will be over. We must get rid of the children. We will take them deeper into the woods, so they will not find their way out. Otherwise there will be no help for us."
The man was very disheartened, and he thought, "It would be better to share the last bit with the children."
But the woman would not listen to him, scolded him, and criticized him. He who says A must also say B, and because he had given in the first time, he had to do so the second time as well.
The children were still awake and had overheard the conversation. When the adults were asleep, Hansel got up again and wanted to gather pebbles as he had done before, but the woman had locked the door, and Hansel could not get out. But he comforted his little sister and said, "Don't cry, Gretel. Sleep well. God will help us."
Early the next morning the woman came and got the children from their beds. They received their little pieces of bread, even less than the last time. On the way to the woods, Hansel crumbled his piece in his pocket, then often stood still, and threw crumbs onto the ground.
"Hansel, why are you always stopping and looking around?" said his father. "Keep walking straight ahead."
"I can see my pigeon sitting on the roof. It wants to say good-bye to me."
"Fool," said the woman, "that isn't your pigeon. That's the morning sun shining on the chimney."
But little by little Hansel dropped all the crumbs onto the path. The woman took them deeper into the woods than they had ever been in their whole lifetime.
Once again a large fire was made, and the mother said, "Sit here, children. If you get tired you can sleep a little. We are going into the woods to cut wood. We will come and get you in the evening when we are finished."
When it was midday Gretel shared her bread with Hansel, who had scattered his piece along the path. Then they fell asleep, and evening passed, but no one came to get the poor children.
It was dark at night when they awoke, and Hansel comforted Gretel and said, "Wait, when the moon comes up I will be able to see the crumbs of bread that I scattered, and they will show us the way back home."
When the moon appeared they got up, but they could not find any crumbs, for the many thousands of birds that fly about in the woods and in the fields had pecked them up.
Hansel said to Gretel, "We will find our way," but they did not find it.
They walked through the entire night and the next day from morning until evening, but they did not find their way out of the woods. They were terribly hungry, for they had eaten only a few small berries that were growing on the ground. And because they were so tired that their legs would no longer carry them, they lay down under a tree and fell asleep. It was already the third morning since they had left the father's house. They started walking again, but managed only to go deeper and deeper into the woods. If help did not come soon, they would perish. At midday they saw a little snow-white bird sitting on a branch. It sang so beautifully that they stopped to listen. When it was finished it stretched its wings and flew in front of them. They followed it until they came to a little house. The bird sat on the roof, and when they came closer, they saw that the little house was built entirely from bread with a roof made of cake, and the windows were made of clear sugar.
"Let's help ourselves to a good meal," said Hansel. "I'll eat a piece of the roof, and Gretel, you eat from the window. That will be sweet."
Hansel reached up and broke off a little of the roof to see how it tasted, while Gretel stood next to the windowpanes and was nibbling at them. Then a gentle voice called out from inside:
But the old woman shook her head and said, "Oh, you dear children, who brought you here? Just come in and stay with me. No harm will come to you."
She took them by the hand and led them into her house. Then she served them a good meal: milk and pancakes with sugar, apples, and nuts. Afterward she made two nice beds for them, decked in white. Hansel and Gretel went to bed, thinking they were in heaven. But the old woman had only pretended to be friendly. She was a wicked witch who was lying in wait there for children. She had built her house of bread only in order to lure them to her, and if she captured one, she would kill him, cook him, and eat him; and for her that was a day to celebrate.
Witches have red eyes and cannot see very far, but they have a sense of smell like animals, and know when humans are approaching.
When Hansel and Gretel came near to her, she laughed wickedly and spoke scornfully, "Now I have them. They will not get away from me again."
Early the next morning, before they awoke, she got up, went to their beds, and looked at the two of them lying there so peacefully, with their full red cheeks. "They will be a good mouthful," she mumbled to herself. Then she grabbed Hansel with her withered hand and carried him to a little stall, where she locked him behind a cage door. Cry as he might, there was no help for him.
Then she shook Gretel and cried, "Get up, lazybones! Fetch water and cook something good for your brother. He is locked outside in the stall and is to be fattened up. When he is fat I am going to eat him."
Gretel began to cry, but it was all for nothing. She had to do what the witch demanded. Now Hansel was given the best things to eat every day, but Gretel received nothing but crayfish shells.
Every morning the old woman crept out to the stall and shouted, "Hansel, stick out your finger, so I can feel if you are fat yet."
But Hansel stuck out a little bone, and the old woman, who had bad eyes and could not see the bone, thought it was Hansel's finger, and she wondered why he didn't get fat.
When four weeks had passed and Hansel was still thin, impatience overcame her, and she would wait no longer. "Hey, Gretel!" she shouted to the girl, "Hurry up and fetch some water. Whether Hansel is fat or thin, tomorrow I am going to slaughter him and boil him."
Oh, how the poor little sister sobbed as she was forced to carry the water, and how the tears streamed down her cheeks! "Dear God, please help us," she cried. "If only the wild animals had devoured us in the woods, then we would have died together."
"Save your slobbering," said the old woman. "It doesn't help you at all."
The next morning Gretel had to get up early, hang up the kettle with water, and make a fire.
"First we are going to bake," said the old woman. "I have already made a fire in the oven and kneaded the dough."
She pushed poor Gretel outside to the oven, from which fiery flames were leaping. "Climb in," said the witch, "and see if it is hot enough to put the bread in yet." And when Gretel was inside, she intended to close the oven, and bake her, and eat her as well.
But Gretel saw what she had in mind, so she said, "I don't know how to do that. How can I get inside?"
"Stupid goose," said the old woman. The opening is big enough. See, I myself could get in." And she crawled up stuck her head into the oven.
Then Gretel gave her a shove, causing her to fall in. Then she closed the iron door and secured it with a bar. The old woman began to howl frightfully. But Gretel ran away, and the godless witch burned up miserably. Gretel ran straight to Hansel, unlocked his stall, and cried, "Hansel, we are saved. The old witch is dead."
Then Hansel jumped out, like a bird from its cage when someone opens its door. How happy they were! They threw their arms around each other's necks, jumped with joy, and kissed one another. Because they now had nothing to fear, they went into the witch's house. In every corner were chests of pearls and precious stones.
"These are better than pebbles," said Hansel, filling his pockets.
Gretel said, "I will take some home with me as well," and she filled her apron full.
"But now we must leave," said Hansel, "and get out of these witch-woods."
After walking a few hours they arrived at a large body of water. "We cannot get across," said Hansel. "I cannot see a walkway or a bridge."
"There are no boats here," answered Gretel, "but there is a white duck swimming. If I ask it, it will help us across."
Then she called out:
"No," answered Gretel. "That would be too heavy for the duckling. It should take us across one at a time."
That is what the good animal did, and when they were safely on the other side, and had walked on a little while, the woods grew more and more familiar to them, and finally they saw the father's house in the distance. They began to run, rushed inside, and threw their arms around the father's neck.
The man had not had even one happy hour since he had left the children in the woods. However, the woman had died. Gretel shook out her apron, scattering pearls and precious stones around the room, and Hansel added to them by throwing one handful after the other from his pockets.
Now all their cares were at an end, and they lived happily together.
In the first edition the Grimms spell their heroes' names "Hnsel" and "Gretel." In the second edition, "Hnsel" and "Grethel." All modern German editions use the spellings "Hnsel" and "Gretel." There is no reason to include the Umlaut (whether spelled "Hnsel" or "Haensel") in an English translation of the name "Hansel," nor is there any justification for an English translator to revert to the obsolete spelling "Grethel."
The phrase "die Frau" occurs fequently in "Hansel and Gretel," especially in the final edition. This phrase can be translated as "his wife," "the wife," "his woman," or "the woman." In my judgment, the generic "the woman" best fits the story's child's-eye perspective and tone.
The traditional translation of the witch's verse query "Nibble, nibble, little mouse,/ Who is nibbling at my house?" is too good to abandon, although the original German "Knuper, knuper, kneischen,/ Wer knupert an meinem Huschen?" does not specifically mention a mouse.
The Grimm brothers (especially Wilhelm) made substantial changes to this tale throughout its publication history. The most significant changes came with the second edition (1819), although Wilhelm continued to revise the stories until their final edition (no. 7, 1857).
The most substantive alteration in the text of "Hansel and Gretel" is transformation of the children's mother into a stepmother. In both the manuscript version (1810) and the first printed edition (1812) of this well-known tale, the woodcutter's wife is identified unambiguously and repeatedly as "the mother."  The second edition is equally clear in identifying the woodcutter's wife as Hansel's and Gretel's mother.  However, with the fourth edition (1840) the Grimms introduced the word "stepmother," although they retained the word "mother" in some passages.  The Grimms' final version of the famous tale (seventh edition, 1857) refers to the woodcutter's wife once as "the stepmother," twice as "the mother," and about a dozen times generically as "the woman."
Whereas the children's mother/stepmother grows harsher in succeeding editions, their father grows more introspective and milder, perhaps too mild, for he is unwilling or unable to stand up to his domineering wife. "It would be better to share the last bit with the children." he thinks, in a passage added already in the 1819 edition, but his wife will not listen to him.

The Little Peasant

One day he said to her, "Listen, I have a good idea. Our kinsman the  cabinetmaker should make us a calf out of wood and paint it brown so that  it looks like any other calf, and with time it is sure to grow big and be  a cow."
His wife liked this idea, and their kinsman the cabinetmaker skillfully  put together the calf and planed it, then painted it just right. He made  it with its head hanging down as if it were grazing.
When the cows were being driven out the next morning the little peasant  called to the herder and said, "Look, I have a little calf here, but it is  still small and has to be carried."
The herder said, "All right," and taking it in his arms he carried it  to the pasture where he set it in the grass.
The little calf stood there like one that was grazing, and the herder  said, "It will soon be walking by itself. Just look how it is already  grazing."
That evening when he was about to drive the herd home again, he said to  the calf, "If you can stand there and eat your fill, you can also walk on  your four legs. I don't want to carry you home again in my arms."
When the herder drove the cows through the village the little peasant  was standing outside his door waiting for his little calf. It was missing,  and he asked where it was.
The herder answered, "It is still standing out there grazing. It would  not stop and come with us."
The little peasant said, "Oh, I must have my animal back again."
Then together they went back to the pasture, but someone had stolen the  calf, and it was gone.
The herder said, "It must have run away."
The little peasant said, "Don't tell me that," and he took the herder  before the mayor, who condemned him for his carelessness, and required him  to give the little peasant a cow for the lost calf.
The little peasant and his wife now had the cow that they had long  wanted. They were very glad, but they had no feed for it, and could give  it nothing to eat, so it soon had to be slaughtered.
They salted the meat, and the little peasant went to town to sell the  hide, hoping to buy a new calf with the proceeds.
On the way he came to a mill, and there sat a raven with broken wings.  Out of pity he picked it up and wrapped it in the hide.
But then the weather turned very bad with a wind and rain storm. Unable  to continue on his way, he returned to the mill and asked for shelter.
The miller's wife was alone in the house, and she said to the little  peasant, "You can sleep in the straw there," and she gave him a piece of  bread and cheese.
The little peasant ate and then lay down with his hide at his side. The  woman thought, "He is tired and has fallen asleep."
In the meantime the priest arrived. The miller's wife received him  well, and said, "My husband is out, so we can have a feast."
The little peasant listened, and when he heard them talking about  feasting he was angry that he had had to make do with a piece of bread and  cheese. Then the woman served up four different things: a roast, salad,  cake, and wine. They were just about to sit down and eat when someone  knocked on the outside door.
The woman said, "Oh, God, it's my husband." She quickly hid the roast  inside the tile stove, the wine under the pillow, the salad on top of the  bed, the cake under the bed, and the priest in the hallway chest.
Then opening the door for her husband, she said, "Thank heaven, you are  back again. That is such a storm, as if the world were coming to an end."
The miller saw the little peasant lying in the straw and asked, "What  is that fellow doing there?"
"Oh," said his wife, "The poor rascal came in the storm and rain and  asked for shelter, so I gave him a piece of bread and cheese, and let him  lie in the straw."
The man said, "I have nothing against that, but hurry and get me  something to eat."
His wife said, " I have nothing but bread and cheese."
"I'll be satisfied with anything," answered her husband. "Bread and  cheese will be good enough for me." Then he looked at the little peasant  and said, "Come and eat some more with me."
The little peasant did not have to be asked twice, but got up and ate.
Afterward the miller saw the hide with the raven in it lying on the  ground, and asked, "What do you have there?"
The little peasant answered, "I have a fortune-teller inside it."
"Can he predict anything for me?" said the miller.
"Why not?" answered the little peasant. "But he only says four things,  and the fifth he keeps to himself."
The miller was curious and said, "Let him predict something."
Then the little peasant pressed against the raven's head, so that he  cawed and said, "krr, krr."
The miller said, "What did he say?"
The little peasant answered, "First of all, he says that there is some  wine under the pillow."
"That would be something!" cried the miller, and went there and found  the wine. "Say some more," he said.
The little peasant made the raven caw again, then said, "Secondly, he  says that there is a roast in the tile stove."
"That would be something!" cried the miller, and went there and found  the roast.
The little peasant made the raven prophesy still more, and said,  "Thirdly, he says that there is some salad on top of the bed."
"That would be something!" cried the miller, and went there and found  the salad.
At last the little peasant pressed against the raven once more until he  cawed, and said, "Fourthly, he says that there is a cake under the bed."
"That would be something!" cried the miller, and looked there and found  the cake. Then the two of them sat down at the table together. But the  miller's wife was frightened to death and went to bed, taking all the keys  with her.
The miller would have liked very much to know the fifth thing, but the  little peasant said, "First, let us eat the four things in peace, for the  fifth thing is something bad."
So they ate, after which they bargained as to how much the miller would  pay for the fifth prophesy, finally agreeing on three hundred talers. Then  the little peasant once more pressed against the raven's head until he  cawed loudly.
The miller asked, "What did he say?"
The little peasant answered, "He says that the devil is hiding out  there in the hallway chest."
The miller said, "The devil must leave," and opened the outside door.
Then the woman had to give up the keys, and the little peasant unlocked  the chest. The priest ran out as fast as he could, and the miller said, "  I saw the black fellow with my own eyes. It was true."
The next morning at dawn the little peasant quickly made off the with  the three hundred talers.
At home the little peasant gradually began to prosper. He built a nice  house, and the peasants said, "The little peasant has certainly been to  the place where golden snow falls and people carry money home by the  bushel."
Then the little peasant was summoned before the mayor and ordered to  tell where his wealth came from.
He answered, "I sold my cow's hide in the town for three hundred  talers."
When the peasants heard this, they too wanted to benefit from this  favorable exchange. They ran home, slaughtered all their cows, and  stripped off their hides in order to sell them in the town at this great  profit.
The mayor, however, said, "But my maid must go first."
When she came to the buyer in the town, he did not give her more than  three talers for one hide, and when the others came, he did not give them  even that much, saying, "What am I to do with all these hides?"
Then the peasants were angry that the little peasant had deceived them.  Wanting to take revenge against him, they accused him of fraud before the  mayor. The innocent little peasant was unanimously sentenced to death, and  he was to be rolled into the water in a barrel pierced with holes. He was  led out, and a priest was brought who was to say a mass for his soul. The  others had to step back, and when the little peasant looked at the priest  he recognized the man who had been with the miller's wife.
He said to him, "I freed you from the chest. Free me from the barrel."
Just then a shepherd came by with a flock of sheep. It was the very  shepherd who, as the little peasant knew, had long wanted to be mayor.  Then the little peasant cried out with all his might, "No, I will not do  it! Even if the whole world insists on it, I will not do it!"
Hearing this, the shepherd came up to him, and asked, "What are you up  to? What is it that you will not do?"
The little peasant said, "They want to make me mayor, if I will get  into the barrel, but I will not do it."
The shepherd said, "If that is all that is needed to be mayor, I would  get into the barrel at once."
The little peasant said, "If you will get in, then you will be mayor."
The shepherd agreed and got in, and the little peasant nailed the top  down. Then he took the shepherd's flock for himself, and drove it away.  The priest went to the people and told them that the mass had been read.  Then they came and rolled the barrel towards the water. As the barrel  began to roll, the shepherd cried out, "I will gladly be mayor."
They believed that it was the little peasant who was saying this and  answered, "That is what we intend, but first take a look around down  there," and they rolled the barrel into the water.
After that the peasants went home, and as they were entering the  village, the little peasant approached them, happily driving a flock of  sheep. The astonished peasants said, "Little peasant, where are you coming  from? Did you come out of the water?"
"Yes indeed," answered the little peasant. "I sank deep, deep down,  until at last I reached the bottom. I pushed the bottom out of the barrel,  and crawled out. There were beautiful meadows there, where many lambs were  grazing. I brought this flock with me from there."
The peasants said, "Are there more there?"
"Oh, yes," he said. "More than you could use."
Then the peasants decided that they too would get some sheep for  themselves, a flock for each one of them, but the mayor said, "I come  first."
So they went to the water together, and just then in the blue sky there  were some of the small fleecy clouds that are called little lambs. They  were reflected in the water, and the peasants cried out, "We can already  see the sheep down there on the bottom."
The mayor pushed his way to the front, saying, "I will go down first,  and take a look around. If everything is all right, I shall call you."  Then he jumped in.
"Plop," went the water. They thought that he was calling them to come,  and the whole lot of them hastily plunged in after him.
Then the entire village was dead, and the little peasant, as the only  heir, became a rich man.

The Two Travelers

The shoemaker took a mighty drink, and the storm on his face began to  clear away. He gave the bottle back to the tailor, and said, "I took a  hearty gulp. They have a lot to say about heavy drinking, but not   much about great thirst. Shall we travel together?"
"All right," answered the tailor, "but only if only it suits you to go  to a big town where there is no lack of work."
"That is just where I wanted to go," answered the shoemaker. "In a small  place there is nothing to be earned, and in the country people prefer to  go barefoot."
Thus they traveled on together, always setting one foot before the other  like a weasel in the snow. Both of them had time enough, but little to  eat. When they reached a town they went about looking for work, and  because the tailor looked so lively and merry, and had such fine red  cheeks, every one gave him work willingly, and if he was lucky, the  master's daughter gave him a kiss as well.
Whenever he met up with the shoemaker, the tailor always had the most in  his bundle. The ill-tempered shoemaker would make a sour face, thinking,  "The greater the rascal, the better the luck."
But the tailor would begin  to laugh and to sing, and shared everything he had with his comrade. If a  couple of pennies jingled in his pockets, he ordered drinks, then  cheerfully thumped the table until the glasses danced. His motto was "Easy  come, easy go."
After they had traveled for some time, they came to a great forest through  which passed the way to the capital. Two footpaths led through  it, one of which was a seven days' journey and the other only two, but  neither of them knew which way was the shorter one. They sat down beneath  an oak tree and discussed together what preparations to make, and for how  many days they should provide themselves with bread.
The shoemaker said, "One must plan ahead for the unexpected. I will take  with me bread for a week."
"What?" said the tailor. "Haul bread for seven days on one's back like a  beast of burden and not be able to look about? I shall trust in God, and  not trouble myself about anything. The money I have in my pocket is as  good in summer as in winter, but in hot weather bread dries out and gets  moldy on top of that. Even my coat reaches only to my ankles. Why  shouldn't we find the right way? Bread for two days, and that's enough."
Therefore each person bought his own bread, and then they tried their luck  in the forest.    It was as quiet there as in a church. No wind stirred, no brook murmured,  no bird sang, and no sunbeam found its way through the thickly leaved  branches. The shoemaker did not speak a word. The bread weighed so heavily  on his back that the sweat streamed down his cross and gloomy face.
The tailor, however, was quite merry. Walking on with a spring in each  step, he whistled on a leaf, or sang a song, and thought to himself, "God  in heaven must be pleased that I am so happy."
This lasted two days, but on the third there was still no end to the  forest, and the tailor had eaten up all his bread. Thus his heart sank  down a yard deeper. Nevertheless, he did not lose courage, but relied on  God and on his luck. On the evening of the third day he lay down hungry  under a tree, and rose again the next morning still hungry. The fourth day  was  the same, and when the shoemaker seated himself on a fallen tree and  devoured his dinner the tailor was only a spectator.
If he begged for a little piece of bread, the other laughed mockingly, and  said, "You have always been so merry. Now you can see for once what it is  like to be sad. Birds that sing too early in the morning are caught by the  hawk in the evening."
In short, he was merciless. On the fifth morning the poor tailor could no  longer stand up and was hardly able to utter one word for weakness. His  cheeks were white, and his eyes were red.
Then the shoemaker said to him, "I will give you a bit of bread today, but  in return for it, I will put out your right eye."
The unhappy tailor, who still wished to save his life, had to submit. He  wept once more with both eyes, and then held them out, and the shoemaker,  who had a heart of stone, put out his right eye with a sharp knife. The  tailor remembered what his mother had once said to him when he had been  snacking in the pantry: "Eat whatever you can, and suffer whatever you  must."
After eating his dearly-bought bread, he got on his legs again, forgot his  misery, and comforted himself with the thought that he could always see  enough with one eye. But on the sixth day, hunger made itself felt again,  almost consuming his heart. That evening he fell down by a tree, and on  the seventh morning he was too weak to get up, and death was close at  hand.
Then the shoemaker said, "I will show mercy and give you bread once more,  but you shall not have it for nothing. I shall put out your other eye for  it."
And now the tailor felt how careless his life had been, prayed to God for  forgiveness, and said, "Do what you will. I will bear what I must, but  remember that our Lord God does not always look on passively, and that an  hour will come when the evil deed which you have done to me, and which I  have not deserved of you, will be requited. When times were good with me  I shared what I had with you. My trade is such that one stitch must follow  another. If I no longer have my eyes and can sew no more, I must go  begging. At any rate do not leave me here alone when I am blind, or I  shall die of hunger."
The shoemaker, however, who had driven God out of his heart, took the  knife and put out his left eye. Then he gave him a bit of bread to eat,  held out a stick to him, and led him on behind him.
At sunset, they got out of the forest, and before them in an open field  stood the gallows. The shoemaker led the blind tailor there, and then went  on his way, leaving him there alone. Weariness, pain, and hunger made the  wretched man fall asleep, and he slept the whole night. He awoke at dawn,  not knowing where he was.
Two poor sinners were hanging on the gallows, with a crow sat on the head  of each of them. Then one of the men who had been hanged began to speak,  and said, "Brother, are you awake?"
"Yes, I am awake," answered the second.
"Then I will tell you something," said the first. "The dew that this night  has fallen down over us from the gallows gives everyone who washes  himself with it his eyes again. If the blind knew this, how many would  regain their sight who do not believe that to be possible?"
Hearing this the tailor took his handkerchief, pressed it on the grass,  and when it was moist with dew, washed the sockets of his eyes with it.  Immediately what the man on the gallows had said came true, and a pair of  healthy new eyes filled the sockets. It was not long before the tailor saw  the sun rise from behind the mountains. In the plain before him lay the  great  royal city with its magnificent gates and hundred towers, and the golden  balls and crosses on the spires began to shine. He could distinguish every  leaf on the trees, saw the birds flying past, and the gnats dancing in the  air. He took a needle out of his pocket, and as he could thread it as well  as ever he had done, his heart danced with delight.
He threw himself on his knees, thanked God for the mercy he had shown him,  and said his morning prayer, not forgetting to pray for the poor sinners  who were hanging there swinging against each other in the wind like the  pendulums of clocks. Then he took his bundle on his back and soon forgot  the sorrow he had endured, and went on his way singing and whistling.
The first thing he came to was a brown foal freely running about the  field. He caught it by the mane, and wanted to mount it and ride into the  town. The foal, however, begged for its freedom. "I am still too young,"  it said. "Even a light tailor such as you are would break my back in two.  Let me go until I have grown strong. Perhaps a time may come when I can  reward you for it."
"Run off," said the tailor. "I see that you are still only a  whippersnapper."  He gave it a touch on its back with a switch, whereupon it kicked up its  hind legs for joy, jumped over hedges and ditches, and galloped away into  the open country.
The little tailor had eaten nothing since the day before. "The sun fills  my eyes," he said, "but bread does not fill my mouth. The first thing that  comes my way and is even half edible will have to suffer for it."
In the meantime a stork stepped solemnly over the meadow towards him.  "Stop, stop," cried the tailor, and seized him by the leg. "I don't know  if you are good to eat or not, but my hunger leaves me no great choice. I  must cut your head off, and roast you."
"Don't do that," replied the stork. "I am a sacred bird that brings  mankind great profit, and no one harms me. If you spare my life I will be  able do you good in some other way."
"Then be off, cousin longlegs," said the tailor. The stork rose up, let  its long legs hang down, and flew gently away.
"What's to be the end of this?" said the tailor to himself at last. "My  hunger grows greater and greater, and my stomach more and more empty.  Whatever comes in my way now is lost."
Then he saw a couple of young  ducks which were on a pond come swimming towards him. "You come just at  the right moment," said he, and laid hold of one of them and was about to  wring its neck.
With this an old duck which was hidden among the reeds, began to squawk  loudly. She swam to him with open beak, begging him urgently to spare her  dear children. "Can you not imagine," said she, "how your mother would  mourn if someone wanted to carry you off, and do an end to you."
"Quiet down," said the good-natured tailor. "You shall keep your  children," and he set the captured one back into the water.
When he turned around, he was standing in front of an old tree which was  partly hollow, and saw some wild bees flying in and out of it. "There I  shall find the reward of my good deed," said the tailor. "The honey will  refresh me."
But the queen bee came out and threatened him, saying, "If you touch my  people and destroy my nest our stings shall pierce your skin like ten  thousand red-hot needles. But if you leave us in peace and go your way we  will do you a service for it another time."
The little tailor saw that here also nothing was to be done. Three dishes  empty and nothing on the fourth is a bad dinner. He dragged himself  therefore with his starved-out stomach into the town, and as it was just  striking twelve, all was ready-cooked for him in the inn, and he was able  to sit down at once to dinner.
When he was satisfied he said, "Now I will get to work." He went around  the town, sought a master, and soon found a good situation. Because he  already had thoroughly learned his trade, it was not long before he became  famous, and everyone wanted to have a new coat made by the little tailor.  His reputation grew day by day.
"I can go no further in skill," said he, "and yet things improve every  day." At last the king appointed him court tailor.
But strange things do happen in the world. On that very same day his  former  comrade the shoemaker also became court shoemaker. When the latter caught  sight of the tailor, and saw that he once more had two healthy eyes, his  conscience troubled him. "Before he takes revenge on me," he thought to  himself, "I must dig a pit for him."
He, however, who digs a pit for another, falls into it himself. In the  evening when work was over and it was growing dark, he sneaked to the king  and said, "Your majesty, the tailor is an arrogant fellow and has boasted  that he will get the golden crown back again that was lost ages ago."
"That would please me," said the king, and the next morning he had the  tailor brought  before him, and ordered him to get the crown back again, or  to leave the city forever.
"Aha," thought the tailor. "A rogue gives more than he has. If the  bad-tempered king wants me to do what no one else can do, I will not wait  until morning, but will leave town at once."
Therefore he tied up his bundle, but once outside the gate he could not  help being sorry to give up his good fortune and turn his back on the  city in which all had gone so well for him. He came to the pond where he  had made the acquaintance of the ducks. At that very moment the old one  whose young ones he had spared was sitting there by the shore, preening  herself with her beak. She knew him again instantly, and asked why he was  hanging his head so.
"You will not be surprised when you hear what has happened to me," replied  the tailor, and told her his fate.
"If that is all," said the duck, "we can help you. The crown fell into the  water, and it lies down below at the bottom. We will soon bring it up  again for you. In the meantime just spread out your handkerchief on the  bank."
She dove down with her twelve young ones, and in five minutes she was up  again with the crown resting on her wings. The twelve young ones were  swimming round about with their beaks under it, helping to carry  it. They swam to the shore and put the crown on the handkerchief. No one  can imagine how magnificent the crown was. When the sun shone on it, it  gleamed like a hundred thousand carbuncles. The tailor tied his  handkerchief together by the four corners and carried it to the king, who  was full of joy, and hung a gold chain around the tailor's neck.
When the shoemaker saw that the one trick had failed, he contrived a  second, and went to the king and said, "Your majesty, the tailor has  become insolent again. He boasts that he can copy in wax the whole of the  royal palace, with everything that pertains to it, movable or immovable,  inside and out."
The king sent for the tailor and ordered him to copy in wax the whole of  the royal palace, with everything that pertained to it, movable or  immovable, inside and out. And failing this, or if so much as one nail on  the wall were missing, he should be imprisoned underground for the rest of  his life.
The tailor thought, "It gets worse and worse. No one can endure this," and  he threw his bundle on his back, and went forth. When he came to the  hollow  tree, he sat down and hung his head. The bees came flying out, and the  queen bee asked him if he had a stiff neck, since he hung his head so.
"Oh no," answered the tailor, "something quite different weighs me down,"  and he told her what the king had demanded of him.
The bees began to buzz and hum amongst themselves, and the queen bee said,  "Just go home again, but come back tomorrow at this time, and bring a  large cloth with you, and then all will be well."
So he turned back again, but the bees flew to the royal palace and  straight into it through the open windows, crept into every corner, and  inspected everything most carefully. Then they hurried back and modeled  the palace in wax so quickly that anyone looking on would have thought it  was growing before his eyes. By the evening all was ready, and when the  tailor came the next morning, the whole splendid building was there, and  not  one nail in the wall or tile on the roof was missing. And at the same time  it was delicate and white as snow, and smelled sweet as honey. The tailor  wrapped it carefully in his cloth and took it to the king, who could not  admire it enough, placed it in his largest hall, and in return for it  presented the tailor with a large stone house.
The shoemaker, however, did not give up, but went for the third time to  the king and said, "Your majesty, the tailor has heard that no water will  spring up in the castle's courtyard, but he has boasted that he can create  a fountain in the middle of the courtyard as tall as a man and as clear as  crystal."
Then the king ordered the tailor to be brought before him and said, "If a  stream of water does not rise in my courtyard by tomorrow as you have  promised, in that very place the executioner shall make you shorter by a  head."
The poor tailor did not take long to think about it, but hurried out to  the gate, and because this time it was a matter of life and death to him,  tears rolled down his face.
While he was thus sorrowfully going forth, the foal to which he had  formerly given its liberty, and which had now become a beautiful chestnut  horse, came leaping towards him. "The time has come," it said to the  tailor, "when I can repay you for your good deed. I already know what you  need, and you shall soon have help. Climb on; my back can carry two of  you."
The tailor's courage came back to him. He jumped up in one bound, and the  horse went full speed into the city, and immediately to the castle's  courtyard. It galloped as quick as lightning three times around it, the  third time falling down. At that instant there was a terrific clap of  thunder, a fragment of earth in the middle of the courtyard sprang like a  cannonball into the air and over the castle. Directly afterward a jet of  water rose as high as a man on horseback, and the water was as pure as  crystal, and the sunbeams began to dance on it. When the king saw this he  arose in amazement, and went and embraced the tailor in the sight of all  men.
But good fortune did not last long. The king had daughters aplenty, each  one more beautiful than the others, but he had no son. So the malicious  shoemaker went to the king a fourth time, and said, "Your majesty, the  tailor has not given up his arrogance. He has now boasted that if he  liked, he could cause a son to be brought to his majesty through the air."
The king summoned the tailor and said, "If you cause a son to be brought  to me within nine days, you shall have my eldest daughter to wife."
"The reward is indeed great," thought the little tailor. "One would  willingly do something for it, but the cherries grow too high for me. If I  climb for them, the branch will break beneath me, and I shall fall."
He went home, seated himself cross-legged on his worktable, and thought  over what was to be done. "It can't be managed," he cried at last. "I will  go away after all. I cannot live in peace here."
He tied up his bundle and hurried away to the gate. When he got to the  meadow, he perceived his old friend the stork, who was walking backwards  and forwards like a philosopher. Sometimes he stood still, looking closely  at a frog, than finally swallowing it down. The stork came to him and  greeted  him.
"I see," he began, "that you have your pack on your back. Why are you  leaving town?"
The tailor told him what the king had required of him, and how he could  not perform it, and lamented his misfortune.
"Don't let that turn your hair gray," said the stork, "I will help you out  of your difficulty. For a long time now, I have been carrying infant  children into the city, so this time, I can fetch a little prince out of  the well. Go home and take it easy. Nine days from now go to the royal  palace, and I will arrive there as well."
The little tailor went home, and at the appointed time was at the castle.  Not long afterward the stork flew up and tapped at the window. The tailor  opened it, and cousin longlegs came in carefully and walked with solemn  steps over the smooth marble pavement. In his beak he had a baby that was  as lovely as an angel, and who stretched out his little hands to the  queen. The stork laid him in her lap, and she caressed him and kissed him,  and was beside herself with delight. Before flying away, the stork took  his traveling bag off his back and handed it to the queen. In it  there were little paper parcels with colored sweets, and they were divided  amongst the little princesses. The eldest, however, received none of them,  but instead got the merry tailor for a husband.
"It seems to me," he said, "that I have won the highest prize. My mother  was right after all. She always said that whoever trusts in God and has  only good luck can never fail."
The shoemaker had to make the shoes in which the little tailor danced at  the wedding festival, after which he was commanded to quit the town for  ever. The road to the forest led him to the gallows. Worn out with anger,  rage, and the heat of the day, he threw himself down. When he had closed  his eyes and was about to sleep, the two crows flew down from the heads of  the men who were hanging there and pecked his eyes out. In his madness he  ran into the forest and must have died there of hunger, for no one has  seen him or heard of him again.



Straw, Coal, and Bean

The straw said, "Dear friends, where do you come from?"
The coal answered, "I jumped from the fireplace, to my good fortune. If  I had not forced my way out, I surely would have died. I would have burned  to ash."
The bean said, "I too saved my skin. If the old woman had gotten me  into the pot I would have been cooked to mush without mercy, just like my  comrades."
"Would my fate have been any better?" said the straw. "The old woman  sent all my brothers up in fire and smoke. She grabbed sixty at once and  killed them. Fortunately I slipped through her fingers."
"What should we do now?" asked the coal.
"Because we have so fortunately escaped death," answered the bean, "I  think that we should join together as comrades. To prevent some new  misfortune from befalling us here, let us together make our way to another  land."
This proposal pleased the other two, and they set forth all together.
They soon came to a small brook, and because there was neither a bridge  nor a walkway there, they did not know how they would get across it.
Then the straw had a good idea, and said, "I will lay myself across it,  and you can walk across me like on a bridge."
So the straw stretched himself from one bank to the other. The coal,  who was a hot-headed fellow, stepped brashly onto the newly constructed  bridge, but when he got to the middle and heard the water rushing beneath  him, he took fright, stopped, and did not dare to go any further. Then the  straw caught fire, broke into two pieces, and fell into the brook. The  coal slid after him, hissed as he fell into the water, and gave up the  ghost.
The bean who had cautiously stayed behind on the bank had to laugh at  the event. He could not stop, and he laughed so fiercely that he burst.  Now he too would have died, but fortunately a wandering tailor was there,  resting near the brook. Having a compassionate heart, he got out a needle  and thread and sewed the bean back together.
The bean thanked him most kindly. However, because he had used black  thread, since that time all beans have had a black seam.

The Fisherman and His Wife

"Well," said the man, "there's no need to say more. I can certainly let a  fish swim away who knows how to talk."
With that he put it back into the clear water, and the flounder  disappeared to the bottom, leaving a long trail of blood behind him.
Then the fisherman got up and went home to his wife in the filthy shack.
"Husband," said the woman, "didn't you catch anything today?"
"No," said the man. "I caught a flounder, but he told me that he was an  enchanted prince, so I let him swim away."
"Didn't you ask for anything first?" said the woman.
"No," said the man. "What should I have asked for?"
"Oh," said the woman. "It is terrible living in this shack. It stinks and  is filthy. You should have asked for a little cottage for us. Go back and  call him. Tell him that we want to have a little cottage. He will surely  give it to us."
"Oh," said the man. "Why should I go back there?"
"Look," said the woman, "you did catch him, and then you let him swim  away. He will surely do this for us. Go right now."
The man did not want to go, but neither did he want to oppose his wife, so  he went back to the sea.
When he arrived there it was no longer clear, but yellow and green. He  stood there and said:
"Oh," said the man, "I did catch you, and now my wife says that I really  should have asked for something. She doesn't want to live in a filthy  shack any longer. She would like to have a cottage."
"Go home," said the flounder. "She already has it."
The man went home, and his wife was standing in the door of a cottage, and  she said to him, "Come in. See, now isn't this much better?"
There was a little front yard, and a beautiful little parlor, and a  bedroom where their bed was standing, and a kitchen, and a dining room.  Everything was beautifully furnished and supplied with tin and brass  utensils, just as it should be. And outside there was a little yard with  chickens and ducks and a garden with vegetables and fruit.
"Look," said the woman. "Isn't this nice?"
"Yes," said the man. "This is quite enough. We can live here very well."
"We will think about that," said the woman.
Then they ate something and went to bed.
Everything went well for a week or two, and then the woman said, "Listen,  husband. This cottage is too small. The yard and the garden are too  little. The flounder could have given us a larger house. I would like to  live in a large stone palace. Go back to the flounder and tell him to give  us a palace."
"Oh, wife," said the man, "the cottage is good enough. Why would we want  to live in a palace?"
"I know why," said the woman. "Now you just go. The flounder can do that."
"Now, wife, the flounder has just given us the cottage. I don't want to go  back so soon. It may make the flounder angry."
"Just go," said the woman. "He can do it, and he won't mind doing it. Just  go."
The man's heart was heavy, and he did not want to go. He said to himself,  "This is not right," but he went anyway.
When he arrived at the sea the water was purple and dark blue and gray and  dense, and no longer green and yellow. He stood there and said:
"Oh," said the man sadly, "my wife wants to live in a stone palace."
"Go home. She's already standing before the door," said the flounder.
Then the man went his way, thinking he was going home, but when he  arrived, standing there was a large stone palace. His wife was standing on  the stairway, about to enter.
Taking him by the hand, she said, "Come inside."
He went inside with her. Inside the palace there was a large front hallway  with a marble floor. Numerous servants opened up the large doors for them.  The walls were all white and covered with beautiful tapestry. In the rooms  there were chairs and tables of pure gold. Crystal chandeliers hung from  the ceilings. The rooms and chambers all had carpets. Food and the very  best wine overloaded the tables until they almost collapsed. Outside the  house there was a large courtyard with the very best carriages and stalls  for horses and cows. Furthermore there was a magnificent garden with the  most beautiful flowers and fine fruit trees and a pleasure forest a good  half mile long, with elk and deer and hares and everything that anyone  could possibly want.
"Now," said the woman, "isn't this nice?"
"Oh, yes" said the man. "This is quite enough. We can live in this  beautiful palace and be satisfied."
"We'll think about it," said the woman. "Let's sleep on it." And with that  they went to bed.
The next morning the woman woke up first. It was just daylight, and from  her bed she could see the magnificent landscape before her. Her husband  was just starting to stir when she poked him in the side with her elbow  and said, "Husband, get up and look out the window. Look, couldn't we be  king over all this land?"
"Oh, wife," said the man, "why would we want to be king? I don't want to  be king."
"Well," said the woman, "even if you don't want to be king, I want to be  king."
"Oh, wife," said the man, "why do you want to be king? I don't want to  tell him that."
"Why not?" said the woman, "Go there immediately. I must be king."
So the man, saddened because his wife wanted to be king, went back.
"This is not right, not right at all," thought the man. He did not want to  go, but he went anyway.
When he arrived at the sea it was dark gray, and the water heaved up from  below and had a foul smell. He stood there and said:
"Oh," said the man, "she wants to be king."
"Go home. She is already king," said the flounder.
Then the man went home, and when he arrived there, the palace had become  much larger, with a tall tower and magnificent decorations. Sentries stood  outside the door, and there were so many soldiers, and drums, and  trumpets. When he went inside everything was of pure marble and gold with  velvet covers and large golden tassels. Then the doors to the great hall  opened up, and there was the entire court. His wife was sitting on a high  throne of gold and diamonds. She was wearing a large golden crown, and in  her hand was a scepter of pure gold and precious stones. On either side of  her there stood a line of maids-in-waiting, each one a head shorter than  the other.
"Oh, wife, are you now king?"
"Yes," she said, "now I am king."
He stood and looked at her, and after thus looking at her for a while he  said, "Wife, it is very nice that you are king. Now we don't have to wish  for anything else."
"No, husband," she said, becoming restless. "Time is on my hands. I cannot  stand it any longer. Go to the flounder. I am king, but now I must become  emperor."
"Oh, wife" said the man, "Why do you want to become emperor?"
"Husband," she said, "go to the flounder. I want to be emperor."
"Oh, wife," said the man, "he cannot make you emperor. I cannot tell the  flounder to do that. There is only one emperor in the realm. The flounder  cannot make you emperor. He cannot do that."
"What!" said the woman. "I am king, and you are my husband. Are you going?  Go there immediately. If he can make me king then he can make me emperor.  I want to be and have to be emperor. Go there immediately."
So he had to go. As he went on his way the frightened man thought to  himself, "This is not going to end well. To ask to be emperor is shameful.  The flounder is going to get tired of this."
With that he arrived at the sea. The water was all black and dense and  boiling up from within. A strong wind blew over him that curdled the  water. He stood there and said:
"Oh, flounder," he said, "my wife wants to become emperor."
"Go home," said the flounder. "She is already emperor."
Then the man went home, and when he arrived there, the entire palace was  made of polished marble with alabaster statues and golden decoration.  Soldiers were marching outside the gate, blowing trumpets and beating  tympani and drums. Inside the house, barons and counts and dukes were  walking around like servants. They opened the doors for him, which were  made of pure gold. He went inside where his wife was sitting on a throne  made of one piece of gold a good two miles high, and she was wearing a  large golden crown that was three yards high, all set with diamonds and  carbuncles. In the one hand she had a scepter, and in the other the  imperial orb. Bodyguards were standing in two rows at her sides: each one  smaller than the other, beginning with the largest giant and ending with  the littlest dwarf, who was no larger than my little finger. Many princes  and dukes were standing in front of her.
The man went and stood among them and said, "Wife, are you emperor now?"
"Yes," she said, "I am emperor."
He stood and looked at her, and after thus looking at her for a while, he  said, "Wife, it is very nice that you are emperor."
"Husband," she said. "Why are you standing there? Now that I am emperor,  and I want to become pope."
"Oh, wife!" said the man. "What do you not want? There is only one pope in  all Christendom. He cannot make you pope."
"Husband," she said, "I want to become pope. Go there immediately. I must  become pope this very day."
"No, wife," he said, "I cannot tell him that. It will come to no good.  That is too much. The flounder cannot make you pope."
"Husband, what nonsense!" said the woman. "If he can make me emperor, then  he can make me pope as well. Go there immediately. I am emperor, and you  are my husband. Are you going?"
Then the frightened man went. He felt sick all over, and his knees and  legs were shaking, and the wind was blowing over the land, and clouds flew  by as the darkness of evening fell. Leaves blew from the trees, and the  water roared and boiled as it crashed onto the shore. In the distance he  could see ships, shooting distress signals as they tossed and turned on  the waves. There was a little blue in the middle of the sky, but on all  sides it had turned red, as in a terrible lightning storm. Full of despair  he stood there and said:
"Oh," said the man, "she wants to become pope."
"Go home," said the flounder. "She is already pope."
Then he went home, and when he arrived there, there was a large church  surrounded by nothing but palaces. He forced his way through the crowd.  Inside everything was illuminated with thousands and thousands of lights,  and his wife was clothed in pure gold and sitting on a much higher throne.  She was wearing three large golden crowns. She was surrounded with  church-like splendor, and at her sides there were two banks of candles.  The largest was as thick and as tall as the largest tower, down to the  smallest kitchen candle. And all the emperors and kings were kneeling  before her kissing her slipper.
"Wife," said the man, giving her a good look, "are you pope now?"
"Yes," she said, "I am pope."
Then he stood there looking at her, and it was as if he were looking into  the bright sun. After he had looked at her for a while he said, "Wife, It  is good that you are pope!"
She stood there as stiff as a tree, neither stirring nor moving.
Then he said, "Wife, be satisfied now that you are pope. There is nothing  else that you can become."
"I have to think about that," said the woman.
Then they both went to bed, but she was not satisfied. Her desires would  not let her sleep. She kept thinking what she wanted to become next.
The man slept well and soundly, for he had run about a lot during the day,  but the woman could not sleep at all, but tossed and turned from one side  to the other all night long, always thinking about what she could become,  but she could not think of anything.
Then the sun was about to rise, and when she saw the early light of dawn  she sat up in bed and watched through the window as the sun came up.
"Aha," she thought. "Could not I cause the sun and the moon to rise?"
"Husband," she said, poking him in the ribs with her elbow, "wake up and  go back to the flounder. I want to become like God."
The man, who was still mostly asleep, was so startled that he fell out of  bed. He thought that he had misunderstood her, so, rubbing his eyes, he  said, "Wife, what did you say?"
"Husband," she said, "I cannot stand it when I see the sun and the moon  rising, and I cannot cause them to do so. I will not have a single hour of  peace until I myself can cause them to rise."
She looked at him so gruesomely that he shuddered.
"Go there immediately. I want to become like God."
"Oh, wife," said the man, falling on his knees before her, "the flounder  cannot do that. He can make you emperor and pope, but I beg you, be  satisfied and remain pope."
Anger fell over her. Her hair flew wildly about her head. Tearing open her  bodice she kicked him with her foot and shouted, "I cannot stand it! I  cannot stand it any longer! Go there immediately!"
He put on his trousers and ran off like a madman.
Outside such a storm was raging that he could hardly stand on his feet.  Houses and trees were blowing over. The mountains were shaking, and  boulders were rolling from the cliffs into the sea. The sky was as black  as pitch. There was thunder and lightning. In the sea there were great  black waves as high as church towers and mountains, all capped with crowns  of white foam.
"Oh," he said, "she wants to become like God."
"Go home. She is sitting in her filthy shack again."
And they are sitting there even today.


The Brave Little Tailor

The woman carried her heavy basket up the three flights of stairs to the  tailor, who had her   unpack all of her jars. He examined them, picking each one up and holding  it to his nose. Finally   he said, "This jam looks good to me. Weigh out four ounces for me, even if  it comes to a quarter   pound."
The woman, who had hoped to make a good sale, gave him what he asked for,  then went away   angry and grumbling.
"May God bless this jam to give me health and strength," said the little  tailor. Then taking a loaf   of bread from his cupboard, he cut himself a large slice and spread it  with the jam. "That is not   going to taste bad," he said, "but I will finish the jacket before I bite  into it."
He laid the bread aside and continued his sewing, happily making his  stitches larger and larger.   Meanwhile the smell of the sweet jam rose to the wall where a large number  of flies were sitting.   Attracted by the smell, a swarm of them settled onto the bread.
"Hey! Who invited you?" said the little tailor, driving away the unbidden  guests. However, the   flies, who did not understand German, would not be turned away, and they  came back in   ever-increasing numbers. Finally, losing his temper, he reached for a  piece of cloth and shouted,   "Wait, now I'm going to give it to you!" then hit at them without mercy.  When he backed off and   counted, there were no fewer than seven of them lying dead before him,  with their legs stretched   out.
"Aren't you someone?" he said to himself, surprised at his own bravery.  The whole town shall   hear about this." He hastily cut out a banner for himself, then  embroidered on it with large letters,   Seven with one blow. "The town?" he said further. "The whole world  shall hear about   this!" And his heart jumped for joy like a lamb's tail.
The tailor tied the banner around his body and set forth into the world,  for he thought that his   workshop was too small for such bravery. Before leaving he looked about  his house for   something that he could take with him. Finding nothing but a piece of old  cheese, he put that into   his pocket. Outside the town gate he found a bird that was caught in a  bush. It went into his   pocket with the cheese.
He bravely took to the road, and being light and agile he did not grow  weary. The road led him   up a mountain, and when he reached the top a huge giant was sitting there,  looking around   contentedly.
The little tailor went up to him cheerfully and said, "Good day, comrade.  Are you just sitting here   looking at the wide world? I am on my way out there to prove myself. Do  you want to come   with me?"
The giant looked at the tailor with contempt, saying, "You wretch! You  miserable fellow!"
"You don't say!" answered the little tailor. Unbuttoning his coat, he  showed the banner to the   giant. "You can read what kind of man I am."
The giant read Seven with one blow, and thinking that the tailor  had killed seven men, he   gained some respect for the little fellow. But he did want to put him to  the test, so he picked up a   stone and squeezed it with his hand until water dripped from it.
"Do what I just did," said the giant, "if you have the strength."
"Is that all?" said the little tailor. "That is child's play for someone  like me." Reaching into his   pocket he pulled out the soft cheese and squeezed it until liquid ran from  it. "That was even   better, wasn't it?" he said.
The giant did not know what to say, for he did not believe the little man.  Then the giant picked   up a stone and threw it so high that it could scarcely be seen. "Now, you  little dwarf, do that."
"A good throw," said the tailor, "but the stone did fall back to earth.  I'll throw one for you that   will not come back." He reached into his pocket, pulled out the bird, and  threw it into the air.   Happy to be free, the bird flew up and away, and did not come back. "How  did you like that,   comrade?" asked the tailor.
"You can throw well enough," said the giant, but now let's see if you are  able to carry anything   proper." He led the little tailor to a mighty oak tree that had been cut  down and was lying on the   ground. He said, "If you are strong enough, then help me carry this tree  out of the woods."
"Gladly," answered the little man. "You take the trunk on your shoulder,  and I will carry the   branches and twigs. After all, they are the heaviest."
The giant lifted the trunk onto his shoulder, but the tailor sat down on a  branch, and the giant,   who could not see behind himself, had to drag long the entire tree, with  the little tailor sitting on   top. Cheerful and in good spirits, he whistled the song "There Were Three  Tailors Who Rode   Out to the Gate," as though carrying a tree were child's play.
The giant, after dragging the heavy load a little way, could not go any  further, and he called out,   "Listen, I have to drop the tree."
The tailor jumped down agilely, took hold of the tree with both arms, as  though he had been   carrying it, and said to the giant, "You are such a big fellow, and you  can't even carry a tree."
They walked on together until they came to a cherry tree. The giant took  hold of the treetop   where the ripest fruit was hanging, bent it down, and put it into the  tailor's hand, inviting him to   eat. However, the little tailor was much too weak to hold the tree, and  when the giant let go, the   tree sprang upward, throwing the tailor into the air. When he fell back to  earth, without injury,   the giant said, "What? You don't have enough strength to hold that little  switch?"
"There is no lack of strength," answered the little tailor. "Do you think  that that would be a   problem for someone who killed seven with one blow? I jumped over the tree  because hunters   are shooting down there in the brush. Jump over it yourself, if you can."
The giant made the attempt, but could not clear the tree and got stuck in  the branches. So the   little tailor kept the upper hand here as well.
The giant said, "If you are such a brave fellow, then come with me to our  cave and spend the   night with us."
The little tailor agreed and followed him. When they reached the cave,  other giants were sitting   there by a fire. Each one had a roasted sheep in his hand and was eating  from it. The little tailor   looked around and thought, "It is a lot more roomy here than in my  workshop.
The giant showed him a bed and told him to lie down and go to sleep.  However, the little tailor   found the bed too large, so instead of lying there he crept into a corner.  At midnight the giant   thought that the little tailor was fast asleep, so he got up, took a large  iron bar, and with a single   blow smashed the bed in two. He thought he had put an end to the  grasshopper.
Early the next morning the giants went into the woods, having completely  forgotten the little tailor,   when he suddenly approached them cheerfully and boldly. Fearing that he  would strike them all   dead, the terrified giants ran away in haste.
The little tailor continued on his way, always following his pointed nose.  After wandering a long   time, he came to the courtyard of a royal palace, and being tired, he lay  down in the grass and   fell asleep. While he was lying there people came and looked at him from  all sides, and they read   his banner, Seven with one blow.
"Oh," they said, "what is this great war hero doing here in the midst of  peace? He must be a   powerful lord."
They went and reported him to the king, thinking that if war were to break  out, he would be an   important and useful man who at any price should not be allowed to go  elsewhere. The king was   pleased with this advice, and he sent one of his courtiers to the little  tailor to offer him a position   in the army, as soon as he woke up.
The messenger stood by the sleeper and waited until he stretched his arms  and legs and opened   his eyes, and then he delivered his offer.
"That is precisely why I came here," answered the little tailor. "I am  ready to enter the king's   service." Thus he was received with honor and given a special place to  live.
However, the soldiers were opposed to the little tailor, and wished that  he were a thousand miles   away. "What will happen," they said among themselves, "if we quarrel with  him, and he strikes   out against us? Seven of us will fall with each blow. People like us can't  stand up to that."
So they came to a decision, and all together they went to the king and  asked to be released. "We   were not made," they said, "to stand up to a man who kills seven with one  blow."
The king was sad that he was going to lose all his faithful servants  because of one man, and he   wished that he had never seen him. He would like to be rid of him, but he  did not dare dismiss   him, because he was afraid that he would kill him and all his people and  then set himself on the   royal throne.
He thought long and hard, and finally found an answer. He sent a message  to the little tailor,   informing him that because he was such a great war hero he would make him  an offer. In a forest   in his country there lived two giants who were causing great damage with  robbery, murder,   pillage, and arson. No one could approach them without placing himself in  mortal danger. If he   could conquer and kill these two giants, the king would give him his only  daughter to wife and   half his kingdom for a dowry. Furthermore, a hundred horsemen would go  with him for support.
"That is something for a man like you," thought the little tailor. "It is  not every day that someone is   offered a beautiful princess and half a kingdom."
"Yes," he replied. "I shall conquer the giants, but I do not need the  hundred horsemen. Anyone   who can strike down seven with one blow has no cause to be afraid of two."
The little tailor set forth, and the hundred horsemen followed him. At the  edge of the forest, he   said to them, "You stay here. I shall take care of the giants myself."
Leaping into the woods, he looked to the left and to the right. He soon  saw the two giants. They   were lying asleep under a tree, snoring until the branches bent up and  down. The little tailor, not   lazy, filled both pockets with stones and climbed the tree. Once in the  middle of the tree, he slid   out on a branch until he was seated right above the sleepers. Then he  dropped one stone after   another onto one of the giant's chest. For a long time the giant did not  feel anything, but finally he   woke up, shoved his companion, and said, "Why are you hitting me?"
"You are dreaming," said the other one. "I am not hitting you."
They fell asleep again, and the tailor threw a stone at the second one.
"What is this?" said the other one. "Why are you throwing things at me?"
"I am not throwing anything at you," answered the first one, grumbling.
They quarreled for a while, but because they were tired, they made peace,  and they both closed   their eyes again. Then the little tailor began his game again. Choosing  his largest stone, he threw it   at the first giant with all his strength, hitting him in the chest.
"That is too mean!" shouted the giant, then jumped up like a madman and  pushed his companion   against the tree, until it shook. The other one paid him back in kind, and  they became so angry   that they pulled up trees and struck at each other until finally, at the  same time, they both fell to   the ground dead.
Then the little tailor jumped down. "It is fortunate," he said, "that they  did not pull up the tree   where I was sitting, or I would have had to jump into another one like a  squirrel. But people like   me are nimble."
Drawing his sword, he gave each one a few good blows to the chest, then  went back to the   horsemen and said, "The work is done. I finished off both of them, but it  was hard. In their need   they pulled up trees to defend themselves. But it didn't help them, not  against someone like me   who kills seven with one blow."
"Are you not wounded?" asked the horsemen.
"Everything is all right," answered the tailor. "They did not so much as  bend one of my hairs."
Not wanting to believe him, the horesemen rode into the woods. There they  found the giants   swimming in their own blood, and all around lay the uprooted trees.
The little tailor asked the king for the promised reward, but the latter  regretted the promise, and   once again he began to think of a way to get the hero off his neck.  "Before you receive my   daughter and half the kingdom," he said, "you must fulfill another heroic  deed. In the woods there   is a unicorn that is causing much damage. First you must capture it.
"I am even less afraid of a unicorn than I was of two giants. Seven with  one blow, that is my   thing."
Taking a rope and an ax, he went into the woods. Once again he told those  who went with him   to wait behind. He did not have to look very long. The unicorn soon  appeared, leaping toward   the tailor as if it wanted to spear him at once.
"Gently, gently," said the tailor. "Not so fast." He stopped, waited until  the animal was very near,   then jumped agilely behind a tree. The unicorn ran with all its might into  the tree, sticking its horn   so tightly into the trunk that it did not have enough strength to pull it  out again, and thus it was   captured.
"Now I have the little bird," said the tailor, coming out from behind the  tree. First he tied the rope   around the unicorn's neck, then he cut the horn out of the tree with the  ax. When everything was   ready, he led the animal away and brought it to the king.
The king still did not want to give him the promised reward and presented  a third requirement.   Before the wedding, the tailor was to capture a wild boar that was causing  great damage in the   woods. Huntsmen were to assist him.
"Gladly," said the tailor. "That is child's play."
He did not take the huntsmen into woods with him, and they were glad about  that, for they had   encountered the wild boar before and had no desire to do so again.
When the boar saw the tailor he ran toward him with foaming mouth and  grinding teeth, wanting   to throw him to the ground. But the nimble hero ran into a nearby chapel,  then with one leap   jumped back out through a window. The boar ran in after him, but the  tailor ran around outside   and slammed the door. Thus the furious animal was captured, for it was too  heavy and clumsy to   jump out the window. The little tailor called to the huntsmen. They had to  see the captured boar   with their own eyes.
The hero reported to the king, who now -- whether he wanted to or not --  had to keep his   promise and give him his daughter and half the kingdom. If he had known  that it was not a war   hero, but rather a little tailor standing before him, it would have been  even more painful for him.   The wedding was thus held with great ceremony but little joy, and a king  was made from a tailor.
Some time later the young queen heard in the night how her husband said in  a dream, "Boy,   make the jacket for me, and patch the trousers, or I will hit you across  your ears with a   yardstick." Thus she determined where the young lord had come from. The  next morning she   brought her complaint to her father, asking him to help her get rid of the  man, who was nothing   more than a tailor.
The king comforted her, saying, "Tonight leave your bedroom door unlocked.  My servants will   stand outside, and after he falls asleep they will go inside, bind him,  and carry him to a ship that   will take him far away from here."
The wife was satisfied with this. However, the king's squire, who had a  liking for the young lord,   heard everything and revealed the whole plot to him.
"I'll put a stop to that," said the little tailor. That evening he went to  bed with his wife at the usual   time. When she thought he was asleep she got up, opened the door, and then  went back to bed.   The little tailor, who was only pretending to be asleep, began crying out  with a clear voice, "Boy,   make the jacket for me, and patch the trousers, or I will hit you across  your ears with a   yardstick! I have struck down seven with one blow, killed two giants, led  away a unicorn, and   captured a wild boar, and I am supposed to be afraid of those who are  standing just outside the   bedroom!"
When those standing outside heard the tailor say this, they were so  overcome with fear that they   ran away, as though the wild horde was behind them. None of them dared to  approach him ever   again.
Thus the little tailor was a king, and he remained a king as long as he  lived.

Cinderella

The girl went out to her mother's grave every day and wept, and she  remained pious and good. When winter came the snow spread a white cloth  over the grave, and when the spring sun had removed it again, the man took  himself another wife.
This wife brought two daughters into the house with her. They were  beautiful, with fair faces, but evil and dark hearts. Times soon grew very  bad for the poor stepchild.
"Why should that stupid goose sit in the parlor with us?" they said.  "If she wants to eat bread, then she will have to earn it. Out with this  kitchen maid!"
They took her beautiful clothes away from her, dressed her in an old  gray smock, and gave her wooden shoes. "Just look at the proud princess!  How decked out she is!" they shouted and laughed as they led her into the  kitchen.
There she had to do hard work from morning until evening, get up before  daybreak, carry water, make the fires, cook, and wash. Besides this, the  sisters did everything imaginable to hurt her. They made fun of her,  scattered peas and lentils into the ashes for her, so that she had to sit  and pick them out again. In the evening when she had worked herself weary,  there was no bed for her. Instead she had to sleep by the hearth in the  ashes. And because she always looked dusty and dirty, they called her  Cinderella.
One day it happened that the father was going to the fair, and he asked  his two stepdaughters what he should bring back for them.
"Beautiful dresses," said the one.
"Pearls and jewels," said the other.
"And you, Cinderella," he said, "what do you want?"
"Father, break off for me the first twig that brushes against your hat  on your way home."
So he bought beautiful dresses, pearls, and jewels for his two  stepdaughters. On his way home, as he was riding through a green thicket,  a hazel twig brushed against him and knocked off his hat. Then he broke  off the twig and took it with him. Arriving home, he gave his  stepdaughters the things that they had asked for, and he gave Cinderella  the twig from the hazel bush.
Cinderella thanked him, went to her mother's grave, and planted the  branch on it, and she wept so much that her tears fell upon it and watered  it. It grew and became a beautiful tree.
Cinderella went to this tree three times every day, and beneath it she  wept and prayed. A white bird came to the tree every time, and whenever  she expressed a wish, the bird would throw down to her what she had wished  for.
Now it happened that the king proclaimed a festival that was to last  three days. All the beautiful young girls in the land were invited, so  that his son could select a bride for himself. When the two stepsisters  heard that they too had been invited, they were in high spirits.
They called Cinderella, saying, "Comb our hair for us. Brush our shoes  and fasten our buckles. We are going to the festival at the king's  castle."
Cinderella obeyed, but wept, because she too would have liked to go to  the dance with them. She begged her stepmother to allow her to go.
"You, Cinderella?" she said. "You, all covered with dust and dirt, and  you want to go to the festival?. You have neither clothes nor shoes, and  yet you want to dance!"
However, because Cinderella kept asking, the stepmother finally said,  "I have scattered a bowl of lentils into the ashes for you. If you can  pick them out again in two hours, then you may go with us."
The girl went through the back door into the garden, and called out,  "You tame pigeons, you turtledoves, and all you birds beneath the sky,  come and help me to gather:
The girl took the bowl to her stepmother, and was happy, thinking that  now she would be allowed to go to the festival with them.
But the stepmother said, "No, Cinderella, you have no clothes, and you  don't know how to dance. Everyone would only laugh at you."
Cinderella began to cry, and then the stepmother said, "You may go if  you are able to pick two bowls of lentils out of the ashes for me in one  hour," thinking to herself, "She will never be able to do that."
The girl went through the back door into the garden, and called out,  "You tame pigeons, you turtledoves, and all you birds beneath the sky,  come and help me to gather:
The girl took the bowls to her stepmother, and was happy, thinking that  now she would be allowed to go to the festival with them.
But the stepmother said, "It's no use. You are not coming with us, for  you have no clothes, and you don't know how to dance. We would be ashamed  of you." With this she turned her back on Cinderella, and hurried away  with her two proud daughters.
Now that no one else was at home, Cinderella went to her mother's grave  beneath the hazel tree, and cried out:
Her stepsisters and her stepmother did not recognize her. They thought  she must be a foreign princess, for she looked so beautiful in the golden  dress. They never once thought it was Cinderella, for they thought that  she was sitting at home in the dirt, looking for lentils in the ashes.
The prince approached her, took her by the hand, and danced with her.  Furthermore, he would dance with no one else. He never let go of her hand,  and whenever anyone else came and asked her to dance, he would say, "She  is my dance partner."
She danced until evening, and then she wanted to go home. But the  prince said, "I will go along and escort you," for he wanted to see to  whom the beautiful girl belonged. However, she eluded him and jumped into  the pigeon coop. The prince waited until her father came, and then he told  him that the unknown girl had jumped into the pigeon coop.
The old man thought, "Could it be Cinderella?"
He had them bring him an ax and a pick so that he could break the  pigeon coop apart, but no one was inside. When they got home Cinderella  was lying in the ashes, dressed in her dirty clothes. A dim little  oil-lamp was burning in the fireplace. Cinderella had quickly jumped down  from the back of the pigeon coop and had run to the hazel tree. There she  had taken off her beautiful clothes and laid them on the grave, and the  bird had taken them away again. Then, dressed in her gray smock, she had  returned to the ashes in the kitchen.
The next day when the festival began anew, and her parents and her  stepsisters had gone again, Cinderella went to the hazel tree and said:
When evening came she wanted to leave, and the prince followed her,  wanting to see into which house she went. But she ran away from him and  into the garden behind the house. A beautiful tall tree stood there, on  which hung the most magnificent pears. She climbed as nimbly as a squirrel  into the branches, and the prince did not know where she had gone. He  waited until her father came, then said to him, "The unknown girl has  eluded me, and I believe she has climbed up the pear tree.
The father thought, "Could it be Cinderella?" He had an ax brought to  him and cut down the tree, but no one was in it. When they came to the  kitchen, Cinderella was lying there in the ashes as usual, for she had  jumped down from the other side of the tree, had taken the beautiful dress  back to the bird in the hazel tree, and had put on her gray smock.
On the third day, when her parents and sisters had gone away,  Cinderella went again to her mother's grave and said to the tree:
When evening came Cinderella wanted to leave, and the prince tried to  escort her, but she ran away from him so quickly that he could not follow  her. The prince, however, had set a trap. He had had the entire stairway  smeared with pitch. When she ran down the stairs, her left slipper stuck  in the pitch. The prince picked it up. It was small and dainty, and of  pure gold.
The next morning, he went with it to the man, and said to him, "No one  shall be my wife except for the one whose foot fits this golden shoe."
The two sisters were happy to hear this, for they had pretty feet. With  her mother standing by, the older one took the shoe into her bedroom to  try it on. She could not get her big toe into it, for the shoe was too  small for her. Then her mother gave her a knife and said, "Cut off your  toe. When you are queen you will no longer have to go on foot."
The girl cut off her toe, forced her foot into the shoe, swallowed the  pain, and went out to the prince. He took her on his horse as his bride  and rode away with her. However, they had to ride past the grave, and  there, on the hazel tree, sat the two pigeons, crying out:
Then her mother gave her a knife, and said, "Cut a piece off your heel.  When you are queen you will no longer have to go on foot."
The girl cut a piece off her heel, forced her foot into the shoe,  swallowed the pain, and went out to the prince. He took her on his horse  as his bride and rode away with her. When they passed the hazel tree, the  two pigeons were sitting in it, and they cried out:
"This is not the right one, either," he said. "Don't you have another  daughter?"
"No," said the man. "There is only a deformed little Cinderella from my  first wife, but she cannot possibly be the bride."
The prince told him to send her to him, but the mother answered, "Oh,  no, she is much too dirty. She cannot be seen."
But the prince insisted on it, and they had to call Cinderella. She  first washed her hands and face clean, and then went and bowed down before  the prince, who gave her the golden shoe. She sat down on a stool, pulled  her foot out of the heavy wooden shoe, and put it into the slipper, and it  fitted her perfectly.
When she stood up the prince looked into her face, and he recognized  the beautiful girl who had danced with him. He cried out, "She is my true  bride."
The stepmother and the two sisters were horrified and turned pale with  anger. The prince, however, took Cinderella onto his horse and rode away  with her. As they passed by the hazel tree, the two white pigeons cried  out:
When the wedding with the prince was to be held, the two false sisters  came, wanting to gain favor with Cinderella and to share her good fortune.  When the bridal couple walked into the church, the older sister walked on  their right side and the younger on their left side, and the pigeons  pecked out one eye from each of them. Afterwards, as they came out of the  church, the older one was on the left side, and the younger one on the  right side, and then the pigeons pecked out the other eye from each of  them. And thus, for their wickedness and falsehood, they were punished  with blindness as long as they lived.

The Riddle

He spoke to her, saying, "Dear child, can my servant and I find shelter  for the night in this little house?"
"Oh, yes," said the girl in a sad voice, "You certainly can, but I do  not advise you to do so. Do not go inside."
"Why not?" asked the prince.
The girl sighed and said, "My stepmother practices evil arts, and she  does not like strangers."
Then he realized that he had come to a witch's house, but because it  was dark, and he could go no further, he entered. In any event, he was not  afraid.
The old woman was sitting in an armchair by the fire. She looked at the  stranger with her red eyes. "Good evening," she croaked, pretending to be  quite friendly. "Sit down and rest."
She blew into the coals on which she was cooking something in a small  pot. The daughter warned the two to be cautious, to eat nothing, and to  drink nothing, for the old woman brewed evil drinks. They slept soundly  until early morning.
While they were getting ready to leave, and the prince had already  mounted his horse, the old woman said, "Wait a moment. Let me give you a  farewell drink."
While she was getting it the prince rode away, and the servant, who had  to tighten his saddle, was there alone when the wicked witch came with the  drink.
"Take this to your master," she said.
But that instant the glass broke and the poison spilled onto the horse.  It was so strong that the animal immediately fell down dead. The servant  ran after his master and told him what had happened. However, he did not  want to abandon his saddle, so he ran back to get it. When he reached the  dead horse a raven was already sitting on it eating from it.
"Who knows if we shall find anything better today?" said the servant.  So he killed the raven and took it with him.
They wandered in the woods the whole day, but could not find their way  out. As night fell they found an inn and went inside. The servant gave the  raven to the innkeeper to prepare for supper.
Now they had stumbled into a den of murderers, and twelve murderers  arrived in the dark, intending to kill the strangers and rob them. But  before doing so they sat down to supper, and the innkeeper and the witch  sat down with them. Together they ate a dish of soup into which they had  cut up the raven meat. They had scarcely swallowed a few bites when they  all fell down dead, for the raven had passed on to them the poison from  the horsemeat.
Now there was no one left in the house but the innkeeper's daughter.  She meant well and had not taken part in their godless deeds. She opened  all the doors for the stranger and showed him piles of treasure. However,  the prince said that she should keep everything. He wanted none of it, and  with his servant he rode on his way.
After traveling about for a long time they came to a town where there  was a beautiful but proud princess. She had made it known that she would  marry any man who could ask her a riddle that she could not solve.  However, if she solved it his head would be cut off. She had three days to  think about it, but was so clever that she always solved the riddle that  she had been given before the deadline. When the prince arrived nine men  had already died in this manner. However, he was blinded by her great  beauty and was willing to risk his life for it.
He went before her and asked her his riddle: "What is this?" he said.  "One killed none, but still killed twelve?"
She did not know what it was. She thought and thought, but she could  not solve it. She opened her riddle books, but it was not there. In short,  her wisdom was at an end.
Not knowing how to help herself, she ordered her maid to sneak into the  prince's bedroom. There the maid was to listen to his dreams, for the  princess thought that he would perhaps talk in his sleep and reveal the  riddle. However, the prince's clever servant had placed himself in the bed  instead of his master, and when the maid came in, he ripped off the robe  that she had covered herself with, and then chased her out with a bundle  of switches.
The second night the princess sent her chambermaid, who was to see if  she would be more successful in listening, but the servant took her robe  away from her as well, and then chased her out with a bundle of switches.
The master now believed that he would be safe for the third night, and  he lay down in his own bed. This time the princess herself came. She had  on a mist-gray robe and sat down next to him. When she thought that he was  asleep and dreaming, she spoke to him, hoping that he would answer in his  sleep, like many do. However, he was still awake and understood and heard  everything very well.
Then she asked, "One killed none. What is that?"
He answered, "A raven that ate from a dead and poisoned horse, and died  of it."
She asked further, "But still killed twelve. What is that?"
He answered, "Those are twelve murderers who ate the raven and died of  it."
Now that she knew the riddle she wanted to sneak away, but he held her  robe so fast that she had to leave it behind.
The next morning, the princess announced that she had guessed the  riddle and sent for the twelve judges and solved it before them.
But the youth asked for a hearing, saying, "She sneaked into my room  during the night and questioned me. Otherwise she would not have guessed  it."
The judges said, "Bring us proof."
Then the prince's servant brought in the three robes, and when the  judges saw the mist-gray one which the princess usually wore, they said,  "Have this robe embroidered with gold and silver, and then it will be your  wedding robe."

The Mouse, the Bird, and the Sausage

Whoever is too well off always wants to try something different! Thus one day the bird chanced to meet another bird, who boasted to him of his own situation. This bird criticized him for working so hard while the other two enjoyed themselves at home. For after the mouse had made the fire and carried the water, she could sit in the parlor and rest until it was time for her to set the table. The sausage had only to stay by the pot watching the food cook. When mealtime approached, she would slither through the porridge or the vegetables, and thus everything was greased and salted and ready to eat. The bird would bring his load of wood home. They would eat their meal, and then sleep soundly until the next morning. It was a great life.
The next day, because of his friend's advice, the bird refused to go to the forest, saying that he had been their servant long enough. He was no longer going to be a fool for them. Everyone should try a different task for a change. The mouse and the sausage argued against this, but the bird was the master, and he insisted that they give it a try. The sausage was to fetch wood, the mouse became the cook, and the bird was to carry water.
And what was the result? The sausage trudged off toward the forest; the bird made the fire; and the mouse put on the pot and waited for the sausage to return with wood for the next day. However, the sausage stayed out so long that the other two feared that something bad had happened. The bird flew off to see if he could find her. A short distance away he came upon a dog that had seized the sausage as free booty and was making off with her. The bird complained bitterly to the dog about this brazen abduction, but he claimed that he had discovered forged letters on the sausage, and that she would thus have to forfeit her life to him.
Filled with sorrow, the bird carried the wood home himself and told the mouse what he had seen and heard. They were very sad, but were determined to stay together and make the best of it. The bird set the table while the mouse prepared the food. She jumped into the pot, as the sausage had always done, in order to slither and weave in and about the vegetables and grease them, but before she reached the middle, her hair and skin were scalded off, and she perished.

Frau Holle

Every day the poor girl had to sit by a well, next to the highway, and spin so much that her fingers bled. Now it happened that one day the reel was completely bloody, so she dipped it in the well, to wash it off, but it dropped out of her hand and fell in. She cried, ran to her stepmother, and told her of the mishap. She scolded her so sharply, and was so merciless that she said, "Since you have let the reel fall in, you must fetch it out again."
Then the girl went back to the well, and did not know what to do. Terrified, she jumped into the well to get the reel. She lost her senses. And when she awoke and came to herself again, she was in a beautiful meadow where the sun was shining, and there were many thousands of flowers. She walked across this meadow and came to an oven full of bread. The bread called out, "Oh, take me out. Take me out, or I'll burn. I've been thoroughly baked for a long time." So she stepped up to it, and with a baker's peel took everything out, one loaf after the other.
After that she walked further and came to a tree laden with apples. "Shake me. Shake me. We apples are all ripe." cried the tree. So she shook the tree until the apples fell as though it were raining apples. When none were left in the tree, she gathered them into a pile, and then continued on her way.
Finally she came to a small house. An old woman was peering out from inside. She had very large teeth, which frightened the girl, and she wanted to run away. But the old woman called out to her, "Don't be afraid, dear child. Stay here with me, and if you do my housework in an orderly fashion, it will go well with you. Only you must take care to make my bed well and shake it diligently until the feathers fly, then it will snow in the world.* I am Frau Holle."
Because the old woman spoke so kindly to her, the girl took heart, agreed, and started in her service. The girl took care of everything to Frau Holle's satisfaction and always shook her featherbed vigorously until the feathers flew about like snowflakes. Therefore she had a good life with her: no angry words, and boiled or roast meat every day.
Now after she had been with Frau Holle for a time, she became sad. At first she did not know what was the matter with her, but at last she determined that it was homesickness. Even though she was many thousands of times better off here than at home, still she had a yearning to return. Finally she said to the old woman, "I have such a longing for home, and even though I am very well off here, I cannot stay longer. I must go up again to my own people."
Frau Holle said, "I am pleased that you long for your home again, and because you have served me so faithfully, I will take you back myself." With that she took her by the hand and led her to a large gate.
The gate was opened, and while the girl was standing under it, an immense rain of gold fell, and all the gold stuck to her, so that she was completely covered with it. "This is yours because you have been so industrious," said Frau Holle, and at the same time she gave her back the reel which had fallen into the well.
With that the gate was closed and the girl found herself above on earth, not far from her mother's house. And as she entered the yard the rooster, sitting on the well, cried:
Then she went inside to her mother, and as she arrived all covered with gold, she was well received, both by her mother and her sister. The girl told all that had happened to her, and when the mother heard how she had come to the great wealth, she wanted to achieve the same fortune for the other, the ugly and lazy daughter. She made her go and sit by the well and spin. And to make her reel bloody, the lazy girl pricked her fingers and shoved her hand into a thorn bush. Then she threw the reel into the well, and jumped in herself.
Like the other girl, she too came to the beautiful meadow and walked along the same path. When she came to the oven, the bread cried again, "Oh, take me out. Take me out, or else I'll burn. I've been thoroughly baked for a long time."
But the lazy girl answered, "As if I would want to get all dirty," and walked away.
Soon she came to the apple tree. It cried out, "Oh, shake me. Shake me. We apples are all ripe."
But she answered, "Oh yes, one could fall on my head," and with that she walked on.
When she came to Frau Holle's house, she was not afraid, because she had already heard about her large teeth, and she immediately began to work for her. On the first day she forced herself, was industrious, and obeyed Frau Holle, when she said something to her, because she was thinking about all the gold that she would give her. But on the second day she already began to be lazy, on the third day even more so, and then she didn't even want to get up in the morning. She did not make the bed for Frau Holle, the way she was supposed to, and she did not shake it until the feathers flew. Frau Holle soon became tired of this and dismissed her of her duties. This was just what the lazy girl wanted, for she thought that she would now get the rain of gold.
Frau Holle led her too to the gate. She stood beneath it, but instead of gold, a large kettle full of pitch spilled over her. "That is the reward for your services," said Frau Holle, and closed the gate.
Then the lazy girl went home, entirely covered with pitch. As soon as the rooster on the well saw her, he cried out:
And the pitch stuck fast to her, and did not come off as long as she lived.

*Therefore in Hessen whenever it snows they say that Frau Holle is making her bed.

The Seven Ravens

The father sent one of the boys to run quickly to the well and get some  water for the baptism. The other six ran along with him. Because each one  of them wanted to be first one to dip out the water, the jug fell into the  well. There they stood not knowing what to do, and not one of them dared  to go home.
When they did not return the father grew impatient, and said, "They have  forgotten what they went after because they were playing, those godless  boys."
Fearing that the girl would die without being baptized, he cried out in  anger, "I wish that those boys would all turn into ravens."
He had hardly spoken these words when he heard a whirring sound above his  head, and looking up, he saw seven coal-black ravens flying up and away.
The parents could not take back the curse, and however sad they were at  the loss of their seven sons, they were still somewhat comforted because  of their dear little daughter, who soon gained strength and became more  beautiful every day.
For a long time she did not know that she had had brothers, for her  parents took care not to mention them to her. However, one day she  accidentally overheard some people talking about her. They said that she  was beautiful enough, but that in truth she was to blame for her seven  brothers' misfortune. This troubled her greatly, and she went to her  father and mother and asked them if she indeed had had brothers, and what  had happened to them.
Her parents could no longer keep the secret, but said that it had been  heaven's fate, and that her birth had been only the innocent cause.  However, this ate at the girl's conscience every day, and she came to  believe that she would have to redeem her brothers.
She had neither rest nor peace until she secretly set forth and went out  into the wide world, hoping to find her brothers and to set them free,  whatever it might cost. She took nothing with her but a little ring as a  remembrance from her parents, a loaf of bread for hunger, a little jug of  water for thirst, and a little chair for when she got tired.
She walked on and on -- far, far to the end of the world. She came to the  sun, but it was too hot and terrible, and ate little children. She hurried  away, and ran to the moon, but it was much too cold, and also frightening  and wicked, and when it saw the child, it said, "I smell, smell human  flesh."
Then she hurried away, and came to the stars, and they were friendly and  good to her, each one sitting on its own little chair. When the morning  star arose, it gave her a chicken bone, and said, "Without that chicken  bone you cannot open the glass mountain, and your brothers are inside the  glass mountain."
The girl took the bone, wrapped it up well in a cloth, and went on her way  again until she came to the glass mountain. The door was locked, and she  started to take out the chicken bone, but when she opened up the cloth, it  was empty. She had lost the gift of the good stars.
What could she do now? She wanted to rescue her brothers, but she had no  key to the glass mountain. The good little sister took a knife, cut off  one of her little fingers, put it into the door, and fortunately the door  opened.
After she had gone inside a little dwarf came up to her and said, "My  child, what are you looking for?"
"I am looking for my brothers, the seven ravens," she replied.
The dwarf said, "The lord ravens are not at home, but if you want to wait  here until they return, step inside."
Then the dwarf carried in the ravens' dinner on seven little plates, and  in seven little cups. The sister ate a little bit from each plate and took  a little sip from each cup. Into the last cup she dropped the ring that  she had brought with her.
Suddenly she heard a whirring and rushing sound in the air, and the dwarf  said, "The lord ravens are flying home now."
They came, wanted to eat and drink, and looked for their plates and cups.  Then one after the other of them said, "Who has been eating from my plate?  Who has been drinking from my cup? It was a human mouth."
When the seventh one came to the bottom of his cup, the ring rolled toward  him. Looking at it, he saw that it was a ring from their father and  mother, and said, "God grant that our sister might be here; then we would  be set free."
The girl was listening from behind the door, and when she heard this wish  she came forth. Then the ravens were restored to their human forms again.  They hugged and kissed one another, and went home happily.


Little Red Cap

One day her mother said to her, "Come Little Red Cap. Here is a piece of cake and a bottle of wine. Take them to your grandmother. She is sick and weak, and they will do her well. Mind your manners and give her my greetings. Behave yourself on the way, and do not leave the path, or you might fall down and break the glass, and then there will be nothing for your grandmother. And when you enter her parlor, don't forget to say 'Good morning,' and don't peer into all the corners first."
"I'll do everything just right," said Little Red Cap, shaking her mother's hand.
The grandmother lived out in the woods, a half hour from the village. When Little Red Cap entered the woods a wolf came up to her. She did not know what a wicked animal he was, and was not afraid of him.
"Good day to you, Little Red Cap."
"Thank you, wolf."
"Where are you going so early, Little Red Cap?"
"To grandmother's."
"And what are you carrying under your apron?"
"Grandmother is sick and weak, and I am taking her some cake and wine. We baked yesterday, and they should be good for her and give her strength."
"Little Red Cap, just where does your grandmother live?"
"Her house is good quarter hour from here in the woods, under the three large oak trees. There's a hedge of hazel bushes there. You must know the place," said Little Red Cap.
The wolf thought to himself, "Now that sweet young thing is a tasty bite for me. She will taste even better than the old woman. You must be sly, and you can catch them both."
He walked along a little while with Little Red Cap, then he said, "Little Red Cap, just look at the beautiful flowers that are all around us. Why don't you go and take a look? And I don't believe you can hear how beautifully the birds are singing. You are walking along as though you were on your way to school. It is very beautiful in the woods."
Little Red Cap opened her eyes and when she saw the sunbeams dancing to and fro through the trees and how the ground was covered with beautiful flowers, she thought, "If a take a fresh bouquet to grandmother, she will be very pleased. Anyway, it is still early, and I'll be home on time." And she ran off the path into the woods looking for flowers. Each time she picked one she thought that she could see an even more beautiful one a little way off, and she ran after it, going further and further into the woods. But the wolf ran straight to the grandmother's house and knocked on the door.
"Who's there?"
"Little Red Cap. I'm bringing you some cake and wine. Open the door."
"Just press the latch," called out the grandmother. "I'm too weak to get up."
The wolf pressed the latch, and the door opened. He stepped inside, went straight to the grandmother's bed, and ate her up. Then he put on her clothes, put her cap on his head, got into her bed, and pulled the curtains shut.
Little Red Cap had run after the flowers. After she had gathered so many that she could not carry any more, she remembered her grandmother, and then continued on her way to her house. She found, to her surprise, that the door was open. She walked into the parlor, and everything looked so strange that she thought, "Oh, my God, why am I so afraid? I usually like it at grandmother's."
She called out, "Good morning!" but received no answer.
Then she went to the bed and pulled back the curtains. Grandmother was lying there with her cap pulled down over her face and looking very strange.
"Oh, grandmother, what big ears you have!"
"All the better to hear you with."
"Oh, grandmother, what big eyes you have!"
"All the better to see you with."
"Oh, grandmother, what big hands you have!"
"All the better to grab you with!"
"Oh, grandmother, what a horribly big mouth you have!"
"All the better to eat you with!"
The wolf had scarcely finished speaking when he jumped from the bed with a single leap and ate up poor Little Red Cap. As soon as the wolf had satisfied his desires, he climbed back into bed, fell asleep, and began to snore very loudly.
A huntsman was just passing by. He thought, "The old woman is snoring so loudly. You had better see if something is wrong with her."
He stepped into the parlor, and when he approached the bed, he saw the wolf lying there. "So here I find you, you old sinner," he said. "I have been hunting for you a long time."
He was about to aim his rifle when it occurred to him that the wolf might have eaten the grandmother, and that she still might be rescued. So instead of shooting, he took a pair of scissors and began to cut open the wolf's belly. After a few cuts he saw the red cap shining through., and after a few more cuts the girl jumped out, crying, "Oh, I was so frightened! It was so dark inside the wolf's body!"
And then the grandmother came out as well, alive but hardly able to breathe. Then Little Red Cap fetched some large stones. She filled the wolf's body with them, and when he woke up and tried to run away, the stones were so heavy that he immediately fell down dead.
The three of them were happy. The huntsman skinned the wolf and went home with the pelt. The grandmother ate the cake and drank the wine that Little Red Cap had brought. And Little Red Cap thought, "As long as I live, I will never leave the path and run off into the woods by myself if mother tells me not to."
They also tell how Little Red Cap was taking some baked things to her grandmother another time, when another wolf spoke to her and wanted her to leave the path. But Little Red Cap took care and went straight to grandmother's. She told her that she had seen the wolf, and that he had wished her a good day, but had stared at her in a wicked manner. "If we hadn't been on a public road, he would have eaten me up," she said.
"Come," said the grandmother. "Let's lock the door, so he can't get in."
Soon afterward the wolf knocked on the door and called out, "Open up, grandmother. It's Little Red Cap, and I'm bringing you some baked things."
They remained silent, and did not open the door. Gray-Head crept around the house several times, and finally jumped onto the roof. He wanted to wait until Little Red Cap went home that evening, then follow her and eat her up in the darkness. But the grandmother saw what he was up to. There was a large stone trough in front of the house.

The Bremen Town Musicians

"Why are you panting so, Grab-Hold?" asked the donkey.
"Oh," said the dog, "because I am old and am getting weaker every day  and can no longer go hunting, my master wanted to kill me, so I ran off;  but now how should I earn my bread?"
"Do you know what," said the donkey, "I am going to Bremen and am going  to become a town musician there. Come along and take up music too. I'll  play the lute, and you can beat the drums."
The dog was satisfied with that, and they went further. It didn't take  long, before they came to a cat sitting by the side of the road and making  a face like three days of rainy weather. "What has crossed you, old  Beard-Licker?" said the donkey.
"Oh," answered the cat, "who can be cheerful when his neck is at risk?  I am getting on in years, and my teeth are getting dull, so I would rather  sit behind the stove and purr than to chase around after mice. Therefore  my mistress wanted to drown me, but I took off. Now good advice is scarce.  Where should I go?"
"Come with us to Bremen. After all, you understand night music. You can  become a town musician there." The cat agreed and went along.
Then the three refugees came to a farmyard, and the rooster of the  house was sitting on the gate crying with all his might.
"Your cries pierce one's marrow and bone," said the donkey. "What are  you up to?"
"I just prophesied good weather," said the rooster, "because it is Our  Dear Lady's Day, when she washes the Christ Child's shirts and wants to  dry them; but because Sunday guests are coming tomorrow, the lady of the  house has no mercy and told the cook that she wants to eat me tomorrow in  the soup, so I am supposed to let them cut off my head this evening. Now I  am going to cry at the top of my voice as long as I can."
"Hey now, Red-Head," said the donkey, "instead come away with us. We're  going to Bremen. You can always find something better than death. You have  a good voice, and when we make music together, it will be very pleasing."
The rooster was happy with the proposal, and all four went off  together. However, they could not reach the city of Bremen in one day, and  in the evening they came into a forest, where they would spend the night.  The donkey and the dog lay down under a big tree, but the cat and the  rooster took to the branches. The rooster flew right to the top, where it  was safest for him. Before falling asleep he looked around once again in  all four directions, and he thought that he saw a little spark burning in  the distance. He hollered to his companions, that there must be a house  not too far away, for a light was shining.
The donkey said, "Then we must get up and go there, because the lodging  here is poor." The dog said that he could do well with a few bones with a  little meat on them. Thus they set forth toward the place where the light  was, and they soon saw it glistening more brightly, and it became larger  and larger, until they came to the front of a brightly lit robbers' house.
The donkey, the largest of them, approached the window and looked in.
"What do you see, Gray-Horse?" asked the rooster.
"What do I see?" answered the donkey. "A table set with good things to  eat and drink, and robbers sitting there enjoying themselves."
"That would be something for us," said the rooster.
"Ee-ah, ee-ah, oh, if we were there!" said the donkey.
Then the animals discussed how they might drive the robbers away, and  at last they came upon a plan. The donkey was to stand with his front feet  on the window, the dog to jump on the donkey's back, the cat to climb onto  the dog, and finally the rooster would fly up and sit on the cat's head.  When they had done that, at a signal they began to make their music all  together. The donkey brayed, the dog barked, the cat meowed and the  rooster crowed. Then they crashed through the window into the room,  shattering the panes.
The robbers jumped up at the terrible bellowing, thinking that a ghost  was coming in, and fled in great fear out into the woods. Then the four  companions seated themselves at the table and freely partook of the  leftovers, eating as if they would get nothing more for four weeks.
When the four minstrels were finished, they put out the light and  looked for a place to sleep, each according to his nature and his desire.  The donkey lay down on the manure pile, the dog behind the door, the cat  on the hearth next to the warm ashes, and the rooster sat on the beam of  the roof. Because they were tired from their long journey, they soon fell  asleep.
When midnight had passed and the robbers saw from the distance that the  light was no longer burning in the house, and everything appeared to be  quiet, the captain said, "We shouldn't have let ourselves be chased off,"  and he told one of them to go back and investigate the house. The one they  sent found everything still, and went into the kitchen to strike a light.  He mistook the cat's glowing, fiery eyes for live coals, and held a sulfur  match next to them, so that it would catch fire. But the cat didn't think  this was funny and jumped into his face, spitting, and scratching.
He was terribly frightened and ran toward the back door, but the dog,  who was lying there, jumped up and bit him in the leg. When he ran across  the yard past the manure pile, the donkey gave him a healthy blow with his  hind foot, and the rooster, who had been awakened from his sleep by the  noise and was now alert, cried down from the beam, "Cock-a-doodle-doo!"
Then the robber ran as fast as he could back to his captain and said,  "Oh, there is a horrible witch sitting in the house, she blew at me and  scratched my face with her long fingers. And there is a man with a knife  standing in front of the door, and he stabbed me in the leg. And a black  monster is lying in the yard, and it struck at me with a wooden club. And  the judge is sitting up there on the roof, and he was calling out, 'Bring  the rascal here.' Then I did what I could to get away."
From that time forth, the robbers did not dare go back into the house.  However, the four Bremen Musicians liked it so well there, that they never  left it again. And the person who just told that, his mouth is still  warm.

The Singing Bone

Now in this country there lived two brothers, sons of a poor man. They declared that they dared to attempt the task. The older one, who was crafty and shrewd, did so out of pride. The younger one, who was innocent and simple, did so because of his kind heart.
The king said, "In order to be more sure of finding the beast, you should enter the woods from opposite sides."
Thus the older one entered the woods from the west, and the younger one from the east.
After the younger one had walked a little while, a little dwarf stepped up to him. He held a black spear in his hand and said, "I am giving you this spear because your heart is innocent and good. With it you can confidently attack the wild boar. It will do you no harm."
He thanked the dwarf, put the spear on his shoulder, and walked on fearlessly.
Before long he saw the beast. It attacked him, but he held the spear toward it, and in its blind fury it ran into the spear with such force that its heart was slashed in two.
Then he put the monster on his back and turned towards home, intending to take it to the king.
Emerging from the other side of the woods, he came to a house where people were making merry drinking wine and dancing. His older brother was there too. Thinking that the boar would not run away from him any time soon, he had decided to drink himself some real courage. When he saw his younger brother coming out of the woods with his booty, his envious and evil heart gave him no peace.
He called out to him, "Come in, dear brother. Rest and refresh yourself with a beaker of wine."
The younger brother, suspecting no evil, went in and told him about the good dwarf who had given him the spear with which he had killed the boar.
The older brother kept him there until evening, and then they set forth together. After dark they came to a bridge over a brook, and the older brother let the younger one go first. When the younger brother reached the middle above the water, the older one gave him such a blow from behind that he fell down dead.
He buried him beneath the bridge, took the boar, and delivered it to the king, pretending that he had killed it. With this he received the king's daughter in marriage.
When his younger brother did not return he said, "The boar must have ripped him apart," and every one believed it.
But as nothing remains hidden from God, this black deed was also to come to light.
After many long years a shepherd was driving his herd across the bridge and saw a little snow-white bone lying in the sand below. Thinking that it would make a good mouthpiece, he climbed down, picked it up, and then carved out of it a mouthpiece for his horn. When he blew into it for the first time, to his great astonishment the bone began to sing by itself:
"What a wonderful horn," said the shepherd. "It sings by itself. I must take it to the king."
When he brought it before the king, the horn again began to sing its little song. The king understood it well, and had the earth beneath the bridge dug up. Then the whole skeleton of the murdered man came to light.
The wicked brother could not deny the deed. He was sewn into a sack and drowned alive. The murdered man's bones were laid to rest in a beautiful grave in the churchyard.

Little Louse and Little Flea

Then the little parlor door said, "Why are you crying, little flea?"
"Because little louse has burned herself to death."
Then the little door began to creak.
Then a little broom in the corner said, "Why are you creaking, little  door?"
"Why should I not be creaking?
Then the little broom began to sweep furiously.
Then a little cart came by and said, "Why are you sweeping, little  broom?"
"Why should I not be sweeping?
Then the little cart said, "Then I will run," and it began to run  furiously.
It ran by a little manure pile, which said, "Why are you running,  little cart?"
"Why should I not be running?
Then the little manure pile said, "Then I will burn furiously," and it  began to burn in bright flames.
A little tree that stood near the little manure pile said, "Little  manure pile, why are you burning?"
"Why should I not be burning?
Then the little tree said, "Then I will shake myself," and it began to  shake itself until all its leaves fell off.
A girl who came up with her water pitcher saw that, and said, "Little  tree, why are you shaking?"
"Why should I not be shaking?
Then the girl said, "Then I will break my little water pitcher." And  she broke her little water pitcher.
Then the little spring from which the water was flowing said, "Girl,  why did you break your little water pitcher?"
"Why should I not break my little water pitcher?

The Girl without Hands

"What can that be but my apple tree?" thought the miller, said yes, and  signed it over to the strange man.
The latter, however, laughed mockingly and said, "I will come in three  years and get what belongs to me," then went away.
When he arrived home, his wife came up to him and said, "Miller, tell  me, where did all the wealth come from that is suddenly in our house? All  at once all the chests and boxes are full, and no one brought it here, and  I don't know where it came from."
He answered, "It comes from an strange man whom I met in the woods and  who promised me great treasures if I would but sign over to him that which  stands behind the mill. We can give up the large apple tree for all this."
"Oh, husband!" said the woman, terrified. "That was the devil. He  didn't mean the apple tree, but our daughter, who was just then standing  behind the mill sweeping the yard."
The miller's daughter was a beautiful and pious girl, and she lived the  three years worshipping God and without sin. When the time was up and the  day came when the evil one was to get her, she washed herself clean and  drew a circle around herself with chalk. The devil appeared very early in  the morning, but he could not approach her.
He spoke angrily to the miller, "Keep water away from her, so she  cannot wash herself any more. Otherwise I have no power over her."
The miller was frightened and did what he was told. The next morning  the devil returned, but she had wept into her hands, and they were  entirely clean.
Thus he still could not approach her, and he spoke angrily to the  miller, "Chop off her hands. Otherwise I cannot get to her."
The miller was horrified and answered, "How could I chop off my  own child's hands!"
Then the evil one threatened him, saying, "If you do not do it, then  you will be mine, and I will take you yourself."
This frightened the father, and he promised to obey him. Then he went  to the girl and said, "My child, if I do not chop off both of your hands,  then the devil will take me away, and in my fear I have promised him to do  this. Help me in my need, and forgive me of the evil that I am going to do  to you."
She answered, "Dear father, do with me what you will. I am your child,"  and with that she stretched forth both hands and let her father chop them  off.
The devil came a third time, but she had wept so long and so much onto  the stumps, that they were entirely clean. Then he had to give up, for he  had lost all claim to her.
The miller spoke to her, "I have gained great wealth through you. I  shall take care of you in splendor as long as you live."
But she answered, "I cannot remain here. I will go away. Compassionate  people will give me as much as I need."
Then she had her mutilated arms tied to her back, and at sunrise she  set forth, walking the entire day until it was night. She came to a royal  garden, and by the light of the moon she saw that inside there were trees  full of beautiful fruit. But she could not get inside, for there it was  surrounded by water.
Having walked the entire day without eating a bite, she was suffering  from hunger, and she thought, "Oh, if only I were inside the garden so I  could eat of those fruits. Otherwise I shall perish."
Then she kneeled down and, crying out to God the Lord, she prayed.  Suddenly an angel appeared. He closed a head gate, so that the moat dried  up, and she could walk through.
She entered the garden, and the angel went with her. She saw a fruit  tree with beautiful pears, but they had all been counted. She stepped up  to the tree and ate from it with her mouth, enough to satisfy her hunger,  but no more. The gardener saw it happen, but because the angel was  standing by her he was afraid and thought that the girl was a spirit. He  said nothing and did not dare to call out nor to speak to the spirit.  After she had eaten the pear she was full, and she went and lay down in  the brush.
The king who owned this garden came the next morning. He counted the  fruit and saw that one of the pears was missing. He asked the gardener  what had happened to it. It was not lying under the tree, but had somehow  disappeared.
The gardener answered, "Last night a spirit came here. It had no hands  and ate one of the pears with its mouth."
The king said, "How did the spirit get across the water? And where did  it go after it had eaten the pear?"
The gardener answered, "Someone dressed in snow-white came from heaven  and closed the head gate so the spirit could walk through the moat.  Because it must have been an angel I was afraid, and I asked no questions,  and I did not call out. After the spirit had eaten the pear it went away  again."
The king said, "If what you said is true, I will keep watch with you  tonight."
After it was dark the king entered the garden, bringing a priest with  him who was to talk to the spirit. All three sat down under the tree and  kept watch. At midnight the girl came creeping out of the brush, stepped  up to the tree, and again ate off a pear with her mouth. An angel dressed  in white was standing next to her.
The priest walked up to them and said, "Have you come from God, or from  the world? Are you a spirit or a human?"
She answered, "I am not a spirit, but a poor human who has been  abandoned by everyone except God."
The king said, "Even if you have been abandoned by the whole world, I  will not abandon you."
He took her home with him to his royal castle, and because she was so  beautiful and pure he loved her with all his heart, had silver hands made  for her, and took her as his wife.
After a year the king had to go out into the battlefield, and he left  the young queen in the care of his mother, saying, "If she has a child,  support her and take good care of her, and immediately send me the news in  a letter."
She gave birth to a beautiful son. The old mother quickly wrote this in  a letter, giving the joyful news to the king.
Now on the way the messenger stopped at a brook to rest. Tired from his  long journey, he fell asleep. Then the devil came to him. He still wanted  to harm the pious queen, and he took the letter, putting in its place one  that stated that the queen had brought a changeling into the world. When  the king read this letter he was frightened and saddened, but nevertheless  he wrote an answer that they should take good care of the queen until his  return. The messenger returned with this letter, but he rested at the same  place, and again fell asleep. The devil came again and placed a different  letter in his bag. This letter said that they should kill the queen with  her child.
The old mother was terribly frightened when she received this letter.  She could not believe it, and wrote to the king again, but she got back  the same answer, because each time the devil substituted a false letter.  And the last letter even stated that they should keep the queen's tongue  and eyes as proof.
The old mother lamented that such innocent blood was to be shed, and in  the night she had a doe killed, cut out its tongue and eyes, and had them  put aside.
Then she said to the queen, "I cannot have you killed as the king has  ordered, but you can no longer stay here. Go out into the wide world with  your child, and never come back."
The old mother tied the queen's child onto her back, and the poor woman  went away with weeping eyes. She came to a great, wild forest where she  got onto her knees and prayed to God. Then the angel of the Lord appeared  to her and led her to a small house. On it was a small sign with the  words, "Here anyone can live free."
A snow-white virgin came from the house and said, "Welcome, Queen,"  then led her inside. She untied the small boy from her back, held him to  her breast so he could drink, and then laid him in a beautiful made-up  bed.
Then the poor woman said, "How did you know that I am a queen?"
The white virgin answered, "I am an angel, sent by God to take care of  you and your child."
She stayed in this house for seven years, and was well taken care of.  And through the grace of God and her own piety her chopped-off hands grew  back.
The king finally came back home from the battlefield, and the first  thing he wanted to do was to see his wife and their child.
Then the old mother began to weep, saying, "You wicked man, why did you  write to me that I was to put two innocent souls to death," and she showed  him the two letters that the evil one had counterfeited. Then she  continued to speak, "I did what you ordered," and showed him as proof the  eyes and the tongue.
Then the king began to weep even more bitterly for his poor wife and  his little son, until the old woman had mercy and said to him, "Be  satisfied that she is still alive. I secretly had a doe killed and took  the proofs from it. I tied your wife's child onto her back and told her to  go out into the wide world, and she had to promise never to come back  here, because you were so angry with her."
Then the king said, "I will go as far as the sky is blue, and will  neither eat nor drink until I have found my dear wife and my child again,  provided that in the meantime they have not died or perished from hunger."
Then the king traveled about for nearly seven years, searching in all  the stone cliffs and caves, but he did not find her, and he thought that  she had perished. He neither ate nor drank during the entire time, but God  kept him alive. Finally he came to a great forest, where he found a little  house with a sign containing the words, " Here anyone can live free."
The white virgin came out, took him by the hand, led him inside, and  said, "Welcome, King," then asked him where he had come from.
He answered, "I have been traveling about for nearly seven years  looking for my wife and her child, but I cannot find them."
The angel offered him something to eat and drink, but he did not take  it, wanting only to rest a little. He lay down to sleep, covering his face  with a cloth.
Then the angel went into the room where the queen was sitting with her  son, whom she normally called "Filled-with-Grief."
The angel said to her, "Go into the next room with your child. Your  husband has come."
She went to where he was lying, and the cloth fell from his face.
Then she said, "Filled-with-Grief, pick up the cloth for your father  and put it over his face again."
The child picked it up and put it over his face again. The king heard  this in his sleep and let the cloth fall again.
Then the little boy grew impatient and said, "Mother, dear, how can I  cover my father's face? I have no father in this world. I have learned to  pray, 'Our father which art in heaven,' and you have said that my father  is in heaven, and that he is our dear God. How can I know such a wild man?  He is not my father."
Hearing this, the king arose and asked who she was.
She said, "I am your wife, and this is your son Filled-with-Grief."
He saw her living hands and said, "My wife had silver hands."
She answered, "Our merciful God has caused my natural hands to grow  back."
The angel went into the other room, brought back the silver hands, and  showed them to him. Now he saw for sure that it was his dear wife and his  dear child, and he kissed them, and rejoiced, and said, "A heavy stone has  fallen from my heart."
Then the angel of God gave them all something to eat, and then they  went back home to his old mother. There was great joy everywhere, and the  king and the queen conducted their wedding ceremony once again, and they  lived happily until their blessed end.
The miller thought, "That is my apple tree," agreed, and signed it over to the man.
When he came home, his wife said to him, "Miller, where did all the wealth come from that suddenly has filled every chest and cupboard in our house?"
"I received it from an old man in the forest by signing over to him that which is standing behind the mill."
"Husband!" said the woman, terrified.  "This is going to be very bad.  The old man was the devil, and he had our daughter in mind, who was just then standing behind the mill sweeping the yard."
Now the miller's daughter was very beautiful and pious.  Three years later when the devil came, early in the morning, and wanted to take her, she had drawn a circle around herself with chalk and had washed herself clean.
Therefore the devil could not approach her, and angrily he said to the miller, "Keep wash water away from her, so she cannot wash herself any more, and I can have power over her."
The miller was frightened and did what he was told.  The next day the devil returned, but she had wept into her hands and washed herself with her tears, and was entirely clean.
Because the devil still could not approach her, he was very angry, and ordered the miller, "Chop off her hands, so I can get to her."
The miller was horrified and answered, "How could I chop off my dear child's hands?  No, I will not do it."
"Then do you know what?  I will take you, if you don't do it!"
That frightened the miller terribly, and driven by fear he promised to do what the devil had ordered.  He went to his daughter and said, "My child, the devil will take me if I don't chop off both your hands, and I have promised him that I will do it.  I beg for your forgiveness."
"Father," she said, "do with me what you will," stretched forth her hands, and let him chop them off.
The devil came a third time, but she had wept so long onto her stumps, that she was still entirely clean, and the devil had lost all power over her.
The miller, because he had become so wealthy through her, promised to take the best care of her for the rest of her life, but she did not want to remain there.
"I must leave here," she said.  "Compassionate people will give me enough to keep me alive."
She had the chopped-off hands tied to her back, and she set forth with the rising sun, walking the entire day until evening, when she came to the king's garden.  There was a gap in the garden hedge.  She went inside, found a fruit tree, shook it with her body until the apples fell to the ground, bent over and picked them up with her teeth, and ate them.  Thus she lived for two days, but on the third day the garden watchmen saw her, captured her, and threw her into prison.
The next morning she was brought before the king and sentenced to be banished from the land, but the prince said, "Wait, wouldn't it be better to let her tend the chickens in the courtyard?"  So she stayed there for a time and tended the chickens.  The prince saw her often and grew very fond of her.
Meanwhile the time came when he was to get married.  Messengers were sent everywhere in the world to find him a beautiful bride.  "You needn't look so far and wide," he said.  "I know where one is very nearby."
The old king pondered this back and forth, but he could not think of a single maiden in his kingdom who was both beautiful and rich, "You surely don't want to marry the one who tends the chickens in the courtyard?"  But his son declared that he would marry no one else, so finally the king had to agree.  Soon afterward he died, and the prince succeeded him as king and lived happily for a time with his wife.
Once the king had to go away to war, and during his absence his wife gave birth to a beautiful child.  She sent a messenger with a letter telling her husband the joyful news.  On the way the messenger stopped to rest by a brook and fell asleep.  The devil, who was still trying to harm her, came to him and exchanged the letter with one that stated that the queen had given birth to a changeling.  The king was very saddened to read this, but he wrote that the queen and the child should be well cared for until his return.  The messenger started back with this letter.  When he stopped to rest at the same spot and fell asleep, the devil again appeared, this time exchanging the king's letter with one that ordered the queen and the child to be driven from the kingdom.  This had to be done, however much the people all wept with sorrow.
"I did not come here to become queen," she said.  "I have no luck, and I demand none.  Just tie my child and my hands onto my back, and I will set forth into the world."
That evening she came to a place in a thick forest where a good old man was sitting by a spring.  "Be so kindhearted as to hold my child to my breast until I have nursed him," she said.
The man did that, after which he said to her, "Go to that thick tree over there and wrap your maimed arms around it three times!"  And when she had done this, her hands grew back on.  Then he showed her a house.  "You can live there," he said, "but do not go outside, and do not open the door for anyone unless he asks three times to come in, for God's sake."
Meanwhile the king returned home and discovered how he had been deceived.  Accompanied by a single servant he set forth, and after a long journey he finally happened, one night, into the same forest where the queen was living, but he did not know that she was so close to him.  "There is a little light from a house back there," said his servant.  "We can rest there."
"No," said the king.  "I do not want to rest so long, but rather to continue searching for my wife.  I cannot rest until I find her."
But the servant begged so much and complained so about his weariness that out of compassion, the king gave in.  When they came to the house, the moon was shining, and they saw the queen standing by the window.  "That must be our queen; she looks just like her," said the servant, "but I see now that she is not the one, for this one has hands."
The servant asked her for shelter, but she refused, because he had not asked "for God's sake."  He was about to go on and seek another place for their night's lodging when the king himself came up and said, "Let me in, for God's sake!"
"I cannot let you in until you have asked me three time, for God's sake," she replied.  And after the king had asked two more times, she opened the door.  His little son ran to him and led him in to his mother.  The king recognized her immediately as his beloved wife.  The next morning they all journeyed together back to their kingdom, and as soon as they had left the house, it disappeared behind them.


Clever Hans

"Behave yourself, Hans."
"Behave myself. Good-bye, mother."
"Good-bye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel's. "Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans. Are you bringing something good?"
"Bringing nothing. Want something."
Gretel gives Hans a needle.
Hans says, "Good-bye, Gretel."
"Good-bye, Hans."
Hans takes the needle, sticks it into a hay wagon, and walks home behind  the wagon.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
"At Gretel's."
"What did you take her?"
"Took nothing. Got something."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"Gave me a needle."
"Where is the needle, Hans?"
"Stuck in the hay wagon."
"That was stupid, Hans. You should have stuck the needle in your sleeve."
"Doesn't matter. Do better."
"Where are you going, Hans?"
"To Gretel's, mother."
"Behave yourself, Hans."
"Behave myself. Good-bye, mother."
"Good-bye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel's. "Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans. Are you bringing something good?"
"Bringing nothing. Want something."
Gretel gives Hans a knife.
"Good-bye, Gretel."
"Good-bye Hans."
Hans takes the knife, sticks it in his sleeve, and goes home.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
"At Gretel's."
"What did you take her?"
"Took nothing. Got something."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"Gave me a knife."
"Where is the knife, Hans?"
"Stuck in my sleeve."
"That was stupid, Hans. You should have put the knife in your pocket."
"Doesn't matter. Do better."
"Where are you going, Hans?"
"To Gretel's, mother."
"Behave yourself, Hans."
"Behave myself. Good-bye, mother."
"Good-bye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel's. "Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans. Are you bringing something good?"
"Bringing nothing. Want something."
Gretel gives Hans a young goat.
"Good-bye, Gretel."
"Good-bye, Hans."
Hans takes the goat, ties its legs, and puts it in his pocket. When he  arrives home it has suffocated.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
"At Gretel's."
"What did you take her?"
"Took nothing. Got something."
"What did Gretel give you?"
She gave me a goat.
"Where is the goat, Hans?"
"Put it in my pocket."
"That was stupid, Hans. You should have tied a rope around the goat's  neck."
"Doesn't matter. Do better."
"Where are you going, Hans?"
"To Gretel's, mother."
"Behave yourself, Hans."
"Behave myself. Good-bye, mother."
"Good-bye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel's.
"Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans. Are you bringing something good?"
"Bringing nothing. Want something."
Gretel gives Hans a piece of bacon.
"Good-bye, Gretel."
"Good-bye, Hans."
Hans takes the bacon, ties a rope around it, and drags it along behind  him. The dogs come and eat the bacon. When he arrives home he has the rope  in his hand, but there is no longer anything tied to it.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
"At Gretel's."
"What did you take her?"
"Took nothing. Got something."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"Gave me a piece of bacon."
"Where is the bacon, Hans?"
"Tied it to a rope. Brought it home. Dogs got it."
"That was stupid, Hans. You should have carried the bacon on your head."
"Doesn't matter. Do better."
"Where are you going, Hans?"
"To Gretel's, mother."
"Behave yourself, Hans."
"Behave myself. Good-bye, mother."
"Good-bye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel's. "Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans. Are you bringing something good?"
"Bringing nothing. Want something."
Gretel gives Hans a calf.
"Good-bye, Gretel."
"Good-bye, Hans."
Hans takes the calf, puts it on his head, and the calf kicks his face.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
"At Gretel's."
"What did you take her?"
"Took nothing. Got something."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"Gave me a calf."
"Where is the calf, Hans?"
"Put it on my head. Kicked my face."
"That was stupid, Hans. You should have led the calf, and taken it to the  hayrack."
"Doesn't matter. Do better."
"Where are you going, Hans?"
"To Gretel's, mother."
"Behave yourself, Hans."
"Behave myself. Good-bye, mother."
"Good-bye, mother."
"Good-bye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel's. "Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans. Are you bringing something good?"
"Bringing nothing. Want something."
Gretel says to Hans, "I will go with you."
Hans takes Gretel, ties her to a rope, leads her to the hayrack and binds  her fast. Then Hans goes to his mother.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?"
"At Gretel's."
"What did you take her?"
"Took nothing. Got something."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"Gave me nothing. Came with me."
"Where did you leave Gretel?"
"Led her on a rope. Tied her to the hayrack. Threw her some grass."
"That was stupid, Hans. You should have cast friendly eyes at her."
"Doesn't matter. Do better."
Hans goes into the stable, cuts out the eyes of all the calves and sheep,  and throws them in Gretel's face. Then Gretel becomes angry, tears herself  loose and runs away. She is no longer Hans's bride.

Frau Trude

Her parents strictly forbade her, saying: "Frau Trude is a wicked woman who commits godless acts.  If you go there, you will no longer be our child.
But the girl paid no attention to her parents and went to Frau Trude's place anyway.
When she arrived there, Frau Trude asked: "Why are you so pale?"
"Oh," she answered, trembling all over, "I saw something that frightened me."
"What did you see?"
"I saw a black man on your steps."
"That was a charcoal burner."
"Then I saw a green man."
"That was a huntsman."
"Then I saw a blood-red man."
"That was a butcher."
"Oh, Frau Trude, it frightened me when I looked through your window and could not see you, but instead saw the devil with a head of fire."
"Aha!" she said.  "So you saw the witch properly outfitted.  I have been waiting for you and wanting you for a long time.  Light the way for me now!"
With that she turned to girl into a block of wood and threw it into the fire.  When it was thoroughly aglow she sat down next to it, and warmed herself by it, saying: "It gives such a bright light!"


The Tailor in Heaven

"I am a poor, honest tailor who is requesting admission," replied a  pleasant voice.
"Honest indeed," said Peter. "Like the thief on the gallows. You have been  sticky-fingered and have robbed people of  their cloth. You will not get  into heaven. The Lord has forbidden me to let anyone in as long he is  out."
"Oh, please be merciful," cried the tailor. "Little scraps that fall off  the table by themselves are not stolen, and are not worth mentioning. See  here, I am limping and have blisters on my feet from walking here. I  cannot possibly go back again. Just let me in, and I will do all the dirty  work. I will tend the children, wash their diapers, wipe off and clean the  benches on which they have been playing, and patch all their torn  clothes."
Saint Peter let himself be moved by pity and opened heaven's gate just  wide enough for the lame tailor to slip his lean body inside. He had to  take a seat in a corner behind the door, and was told to stay there  quietly and peacefully, so that the Lord would not notice him when he  returned, and become angry.
The tailor obeyed, but one time when Saint Peter stepped outside the door,  he got up, and full of curiosity, looked into every corner of heaven,  seeing what was there. Finally he came to a place where there were many  beautiful and costly chairs. At their center was a seat made entirely of  gold and set with glistening precious stones. It stood much higher than  the other chairs, and a golden footstool stood in front of it. This was  the seat on which the Lord sat when he was at home, and from which he  could see everything that was happening on earth.
The tailor stood still, and looked at the seat for a long time, for he  liked it better than all the rest. Finally he could control his curiosity  no longer, and he climbed up and sat down on it. From there he saw  everything that was happening on earth.
He noticed an ugly old woman who  was standing beside a stream doing the laundry. She secretly set two  scarves aside. Seeing this made the tailor so angry that he took hold of  the golden footstool and threw it at the old thief, through heaven down to  earth. Unable to bring the stool back again, he quietly sneaked down from  the seat, sat back down in his place behind the door, and pretended that  he had done nothing at all.
When the Lord and Master returned with his heavenly attendants, he did not  notice the tailor behind the door, but when he sat down on his seat, the  footstool was missing. He asked Saint Peter what had become of the  footstool, but he did not know. Then he asked if he had admitted anyone.
"I know of no one who has been here," answered Peter, "except for a lame  tailor, who is still sitting behind the door."
Then the Lord had the tailor brought before him, and asked him if he had  taken the footstool, and where he had put it.
"Oh, Lord," answered the tailor joyously, "In my anger I threw it down to  earth at an old woman whom I saw stealing two scarves while doing the  laundry."
"Oh, you scoundrel," said the Lord, "if I were to judge as you judge, how  would it have gone with you? I would have long since had no chairs,  benches, seats, no, not even a stove-poker, but would have thrown  everything down at the sinners. You can no longer stay in heaven, but  must go outside the gate again. From there watch where you are going. Here  no one metes out punishment, except for me alone, the Lord."
Peter had to take the tailor out of heaven again, and because his shoes  were worn out and his feet were covered with blisters, he took a stick in  his hand and went to Wait-a-While, where the good soldiers sit and make  merry.

Table-Be-Set,
Gold-Donkey, and
Cudgel-out-of-the-Sack

Once the eldest took her to the churchyard, where the finest herbs were to be found, and let her eat and run about there. At night when it was time to go home he asked, "Goat, have you had enough?"
The goat answered,
"Come home, then," said the youth, and took hold of the cord around her neck, led her into the stable, and tied her up securely.
"Well," said the old tailor, "has the goat had as much food as she ought?"
"Oh," answered the son, "she has eaten so much, not a leaf more she'll touch."
But the father wished to satisfy himself, and went down to the stable, stroked the dear animal, and asked, "Goat, are you satisfied?"
The goat answered,
"What do I hear?" cried the tailor, and ran upstairs and said to the youth, "Hey, you liar, you said the goat had had enough, and have let her hunger." And in his anger he took the yardstick from the wall, and drove him out with blows.
Next day it was the turn of the second son, who sought a place next to the garden hedge where nothing but good herbs grew, and the goat gobbled them all up. At night when he wanted to go home, he asked, "Goat, are you satisfied?"
"Come home then," said the youth, and led her home, and tied her up in the stable.
"Well," said the old tailor, "has the goat had as much food as she ought?"
"Oh," answered the son, "she has eaten so much, not a leaf more she'll touch."
The tailor would not rely on this, but went down to the stable and said, "Goat, have you had enough?"
The goat answered,
"The godless wretch!" cried the tailor, to let such a good animal hunger, and he ran up and drove the youth out of doors with the yardstick.
Now came the turn of the third son, who wanted to do his duty well, and sought out some bushes with the finest leaves, and let the goat devour them. In the evening when he wanted to go home, he asked, "Goat, have you had enough?"
The goat answered,
"Come home then," said the youth, and led her into the stable, and tied her up.
"Well," said the old tailor, "has the goat had her full share of food?"
"She has eaten so much, not a leaf more she'll touch."
The tailor was distrustful, went down, and asked, "Goat, have you had enough?"
The wicked beast answered,
"Oh, the brood of liars!" cried the tailor, "Each as wicked and forgetful of his duty as the other. You shall no longer make a fool of me!" And quite beside himself with anger, he ran upstairs and tanned the poor young fellow's back so vigorously with the yardstick that he leaped out of the house.
The old tailor was now alone with his goat. Next morning he went down into the stable, stroked the goat and said, "Come, my dear little animal, I myself will take you to feed." He took her by the rope and led her to green hedges, and amongst yarrow and whatever else goats like to eat. "Here you may for once eat to your heart's content," he said to her, and let her browse till evening. Then he asked, "Goat, are you satisfied?"
She answered,
"Come home then," said the tailor, and led her into the stable, and tied her fast. When he was going away, he turned around again and said, "Well, are you satisfied for once?"
But the goat behaved no better for him, and cried,
When the tailor heard that, he was shocked, and saw clearly that he had driven away his three sons without cause. "Wait, you ungrateful creature," he cried, "it is not enough to drive you away, I will brand you so that you will no more dare to show yourself amongst honest tailors." He quickly ran upstairs, fetched his razor, lathered the goat's head, and shaved her as clean as the palm of his hand. And as the yardstick would have been too honorable for her, he grabbed a whip, and gave her such blows with it that she bounded away with tremendous leaps.
When the tailor was thus left quite alone in his house he fell into great grief, and would gladly have had his sons back again, but no one knew where they were gone.
The eldest had apprenticed himself to a joiner, and learned industriously and tirelessly, and when the time came for him to be on his way, his master presented him with a little table which was not particularly beautiful, and was made of common wood, but which had one good property. If anyone set it out, and said, "table be set," the good little table was at once covered with a clean little cloth, and a plate was there, and a knife and fork beside it, and dishes with boiled meats and roasted meats, as many as there was room for, and a great glass of red wine shone, so that it made the heart glad.
The young journeyman thought, "With this you have enough for your whole life," and went joyously about the world and never troubled himself at all whether an inn was good or bad, or if anything was to be found in it or not. When it suited him, he did not enter an inn at all, but either on the plain, in a wood, a meadow, or wherever he fancied, he took his little table off his back, set it down before him, and said, "table be set," and then everything appeared that his heart desired.
At length he took it into his head to go back to his father, whose anger would now be appeased, and who would now willingly receive him with his magic table. It came to pass that on his way home, he came one evening to an inn which was filled with guests. They bade him welcome, and invited him to sit and eat with them, for otherwise he would have difficulty in getting anything.
"No," answered the joiner, "I will not take the few morsels out of your mouths. Rather than that, you shall be my guests."
They laughed, and thought he was jesting with them. He but placed his wooden table in the middle of the room, and said, "Table be set." Instantly it was covered with food, so good that the host could never have procured it, and the smell of it ascended pleasantly to the nostrils of the guests.
"Fall to, dear friends," said the joiner, and the guests when they saw that he meant it, did not need to be asked twice, but drew near, pulled out their knives and attacked it valiantly. And what surprised them the most was that when a dish became empty, a full one instantly took its place of its own accord.
The innkeeper stood in one corner and watched the affair. He did not at all know what to say, but thought, "You could easily find a use for such a cook as that in your household."
The joiner and his comrades made merry until late into the night. At length they lay down to sleep, and the young journeyman also went to bed, and set his magic table against the wall. The host's thoughts, however, let him have no rest. It occurred to him that there was a little old table in his backroom which looked just like the journeyman's and he brought it out, and carefully exchanged it for the wishing table. Next morning the joiner paid for his bed, took up his table, never thinking that he had got a false one, and went his way.
At midday he reached his father, who received him with great joy. "Well, my dear son, what have you learned?" he said to him.
"Father, I have become a joiner."
"A good trade," replied the old man. "But what have you brought back with you from your apprenticeship?"
"Father, the best thing which I have brought back with me is this little table."
The tailor inspected it on all sides and said, "You did not make a masterpiece when you made this. It is a bad old table."
"But it is a table-be-set," replied the son. "When I set it out, and tell it to set itself, the most beautiful dishes immediately appear on it, and wine also, which gladdens the heart. Just invite all our relatives and friends. They shall refresh and enjoy themselves for once, for the table will fill them all."
When the company was assembled, he put his table in the middle of the room and said, "Table be set," but the little table did not move, and remained just as bare as any other table which does not understand language. Then the poor journeyman became aware that his table had been changed, and was ashamed at having to stand there like a liar. The relatives, however, mocked him, and were forced to go home without having eaten or drunk.
The father brought out his scraps again, and went on tailoring, but the son found work with a master joiner.
The second son had gone to a miller and had apprenticed himself to him. When his years were over, the master said, "As you have conducted yourself so well, I give you a donkey of a peculiar kind, which neither draws a cart nor carries a sack."
"What good is he then?" asked the young journeyman.
"He spews forth gold," answered the miller. "If you set him on a cloth and say 'Bricklebrit,' the good animal will spew forth gold pieces for you from back and front."
"That is a fine thing," said the journeyman, and thanked the master, and went out into the world. When he had need of gold, he had only to say "Bricklebrit" to his donkey, and it rained gold pieces, and he had nothing to do but pick them off the ground. Wherever he went, the best of everything was good enough for him, and the more expensive the better, for he had always a full purse. When he had looked about the world for some time, he thought, "You must seek out your father. If you go to him with the gold-donkey he will forget his anger, and receive you well."
It came to pass that he came to the same inn in which his brother's table had been exchanged. He led his donkey by the bridle, and the host was about to take the animal from him and tie him up, but the young journeyman said, "Don't trouble yourself, I will take my nag into the stable, and tie him up myself too, for I must know where he is."
This struck the host as odd, and he thought that a man who was forced to look after his donkey himself, could not have much to spend. But when the stranger put his hand in his pocket and brought out two gold pieces, and said he was to provide something good for him, the host opened his eyes wide, and ran and sought out the best he could muster. After dinner the guest asked what he owed. The innkeeper did not see why he should not double the bill, and said the journeyman must give two more gold pieces. He felt in his pocket, but his gold was just at an end.
"Wait an instant, sir," said he, "I will go and fetch some money." But he took the tablecloth with him. The innkeeper could not imagine what this meant, and being curious, stole after him, and as the guest bolted the stable door, he peeped through a hole left by a knot in the wood.
The stranger spread out the cloth under the animal and cried, "Bricklebrit," and immediately the beast began to let gold pieces fall from back and front, so that it fairly rained down money onto the ground.
"Eh, my word," said the innkeeper. "Ducats are quickly coined there. A purse like that is not bad." The guest paid his bill and went to bed, but in the night the innkeeper stole down into the stable, led away the master of the mint, and tied up another donkey in his place.
Early next morning the journeyman traveled away with his donkey, and thought that he had his gold-donkey. At midday he reached his father, who rejoiced to see him again, and gladly took him in.
"What have you made of yourself, my son?" asked the old man.
"A miller, dear father," he answered.
"What have you brought back with you from your travels."
"Nothing else but a donkey."
"There are donkeys enough here," said the father, "I would rather have had a good goat."
"Yes," replied the son, "but it is no common donkey, but a gold-donkey. When I say 'Bricklebrit' the good beast spews forth a whole sheetful of gold pieces. Just summon all our relatives here, and I will make them rich folks."
"That suits me well," said the tailor, "for then I shall have no need to torment myself any longer with the needle," and he himself ran out and called the relatives together. As soon as they were assembled, the miller bade them make way, spread out his cloth, and brought the donkey into the room.
"Now watch," said he, and cried, "Bricklebrit," but what fell were not gold pieces, and it was clear that the animal knew nothing of the art, for not every donkey attains such perfection. Then the poor miller made a long face, saw that he had been betrayed, and begged pardon of the relatives, who went home as poor as they came. There was no help for it, the old man had to take up his needle once more, and the youth hired himself to a miller.
The third brother had apprenticed himself to a turner, and as that is skilled labor, he was the longest in learning. His brothers, however, told him in a letter how badly things had gone with them, and how the innkeeper had cheated them of their beautiful wishing gifts on the last evening before they reached home. When the turner had served his time, and was about to set forth, as he had conducted himself so well, his master presented him with a sack saying, "There is a cudgel in it."
"I can take the sack with me," said he, "and it may serve me well, but why should the cudgel be in it. It only makes it heavy."
"I will tell you why," replied the master. "If anyone has done anything to injure you, do but say, 'Cudgel out of the sack,' and the cudgel will leap forth among the people, and play such a dance on their backs that they will not be able to stir or move for a week. And it will not quit until you say, 'Cudgel into the sack.'"
The journeyman thanked him, and put the sack on his back, and when anyone came too near him and wished to attack him, he said, "Cudgel out of the sack," and instantly the cudgel sprang out and beat the dust out of their coats and jackets, right on their backs, not waiting until they had taken them off, and it was done so quickly, that before anyone was aware, it was already his own turn.
In the evening the young turner reached the inn where his brothers had been cheated. He laid his sack on the table before him, and began to talk of all the wonderful things which he had seen in the world. "Yes," said he, "table-be-sets, gold-donkeys, and things of that kind -- extremely good things which I by no means despise -- but these are nothing in comparison with the treasure which I have obtained and am carrying about with me here in my sack."
The innkeeper pricked up his ears. "What in the world can that be?" he thought. "The sack must be filled with nothing but jewels. I ought to get them cheap too, for all good things come in threes."
When it was time for sleep, the guest stretched himself out on the bench, laying his sack beneath him for a pillow. When the innkeeper thought his guest was lying in a sound sleep, he went to him and pushed and pulled quite gently and carefully at the sack to see if he could possibly take it away and lay another in its place.
The turner, however, had been waiting for this for a long time, and now just as the innkeeper was about to give a hearty tug, he cried, "Cudgel out of the sack!"
Instantly the little cudgel came forth, and falling on the innkeeper gave him a sound thrashing. The innkeeper cried for mercy, but the louder he cried, the harder the cudgel beat the time on his back, until at length he fell to the ground exhausted.
Then the turner said, "If you do not give back the table-be-set and the gold-donkey, the dance shall start again from the beginning."
"Oh, no!" cried the innkeeper, quite humbly, "I will gladly give everything back, only make the accursed kobold creep back into the sack."
Then the journeyman said, "I will let mercy take the place of justice, but beware of getting into mischief again" Then he cried, "Cudgel into the sack," and let him rest.
Next morning the turner went home to his father with the table-be-set, and the gold-donkey. The tailor rejoiced when he saw him once more, and asked him likewise what he had learned in foreign parts. "Dear father," said he, "I have become a turner."
"A skilled trade," said the father. "What have you brought back with you from your travels?"
"A precious thing, dear father," replied the son, "a cudgel in the sack."
"What!" cried the father, "A cudgel! That's worth your trouble! From every tree you can cut yourself one."
"But not one like this, dear father. If I say, 'Cudgel out of the sack,' the cudgel springs out and leads anyone ill-disposed toward me a weary dance, and never stops until he lies on the ground and prays for fair weather. Look you, with this cudgel have I rescued the table-be-set and the gold-donkey which the thievish innkeeper took away from my brothers. Now let them both be sent for, and invite all our relatives. I will give them to eat and to drink, and will fill their pockets with gold as well."
The old tailor had not much confidence. Nevertheless he summoned the relatives together. Then the turner spread a cloth in the room and led in the gold-donkey, and said to his brother, "Now, dear brother, speak to him."
The miller said, "Bricklebrit," and instantly the gold pieces rained down on the cloth like a cloudburst, and the donkey did not stop until every one of them had so much that he could carry no more. (I can see by your face that you would have liked to be there as well.)
Then the turner brought out the little table and said, "Now, dear brother, speak to it." And scarcely had the joiner said, "Table be set," than it was spread and amply covered with the most exquisite dishes. Then such a meal took place as the good tailor had never yet known in his house, and the whole party of relatives stayed together until after nightfall, and were all merry and glad. The tailor locked his needle and thread and yardstick and pressing iron into a chest, and lived with his three sons in joy and splendor.
What, however, happened to the goat who was to blame for the tailor driving out his three sons? That I will tell you.
She was ashamed that she had a bald head, and ran to a fox's hole and crept into it. When the fox came home, he was met by two great eyes shining out of the darkness, and was terrified and ran away. A bear met him, and as the fox looked quite disturbed, he said, "What is the matter with you, Brother Fox, why do you look like that?"
"Ah," answered Redskin, "a fierce beast is in my cave and stared at me with its fiery eyes."
"We will soon drive him out," said the bear, and went with him to the cave and looked in, but when he saw the fiery eyes, fear seized on him likewise. He would have nothing to do with the furious beast, and took to his heels.
The bee met him, and as she saw that he was ill at ease, she said, "Bear, you are really pulling a very pitiful face. What has become of all your cheerfulness?"
"It is all very well for you to talk," replied the bear. "A furious beast with staring eyes is in Redskin's house, and we can't drive him out."
The bee said, "Bear, I pity you. I am a poor weak creature whom you would not turn aside to look at, but still, I believe I can help you." She flew into the fox's cave, lit on the goat's smoothly shorn head, and stung her so violently, that she sprang up, crying "meh, meh," and ran forth into the world as if mad, and to this hour no one knows where she has gone.

Mrs. Fox's Wedding

Mrs. Fox locked herself in her room, and her maid, Miss Cat, sat on the hearth and cooked.
As soon as it became known that the old fox had died, suitors began to appear. The maid heard someone knocking at the front door. She opened it, and there stood a young fox, who said:
She answered:
"No thank you, Miss," said the fox. "What is Mrs. Fox doing?"
The maid answered:
"Miss, tell her that a young fox is here who would like to court her."
"I'll do that, young man."
The cat went upstairs and knocked on the door.
"Mrs. Fox, are you there?"
"Yes, my dear, yes."
"A suitor is outside."
"What does he look like? Does he have nine bushy tails like the late Mr. Fox?"
"No," answered the cat. "He has but one."
"Then I'll not have him."
Miss Cat went downstairs and sent the suitor away.
Soon afterward there was another knock at the door. Another fox was there who wanted to court Mrs. Fox. He had two tails, but he did not fare any better than the first one. Then others came, each with one additional tail, but all were turned away until finally one came who had nine tails, just like old Mr. Fox. When the widow heard that, she spoke joyfully to the cat:
They were just about to celebrate the wedding when beneath the bench old Mr. Fox began to stir. He attacked the entire party with blows and drove them all out of the house, including Mrs. Fox.
Following the death of old Mr. Fox, the wolf presented himself as a suitor. The cat, who was serving as Mrs. Fox's maid, opened the door. The wolf greeted her, saying:
The cat answered:
"No thank you, Mrs. Cat." answered the wolf. "Isn't Mrs. Fox at home?"
The cat said:
The wolf answered:
Mrs. Fox asked, "Is the gentleman wearing red breeches, and does he have a pointed little face?"
"No," answered the cat.
"Then he's of no use to me."
After the wolf had been sent away there came a dog, a deer, a hare, a bear, a lion, and all the other animals of the forest, one after the other. But each one lacked one of the good qualities that old Mr. Fox had had, and the cat had to send each of the suitors away. Finally a young fox came.
Mrs. Fox asked, "Is the gentleman wearing red breeches, and does he have a pointed little face?"
"Yes," said the cat, "that he does."
"Then let him come upstairs," said Mrs. Fox, and she told the maid to make preparations for the wedding feast.
Then Mrs. Fox married young Mr. Fox, and everyone danced and celebrated, and if they have not stopped, then they are dancing still.

The Elves

One evening shortly before Christmas, just before going to bed, and having  already cut out a number of shoes, he said to his wife, "Why don't we stay  up tonight and see who is giving us this helping hand."
His wife agreed to this and lit a candle. Then they hid themselves behind  some clothes that were hanging in a corner of the room. At midnight two  cute little naked men appeared. Sitting down at the workbench, they picked  up the cut-out pieces and worked so unbelievable quickly and nimbly that  the amazed shoemaker could not take his eyes from them. They did not stop  until they had finished everything. They placed the completed shoes on the  workbench, then quickly ran away.
The next morning the wife said, "The little men have made us wealthy. We  must show them our thanks. They are running around with nothing on,  freezing. Do you know what? I want to sew some shirts, jackets,  undershirts, and trousers for them, and knit a pair of stockings for each  of them, and you should make a pair of shoes for each of them."
The husband said, "I agree," and that evening, when everything was  finished, they set the presents out instead of the unfinished work. Then  they hid themselves in order to see what the little men would do. At  midnight they came skipping up, intending to start work immediately. When  they saw the little clothes instead of the cut-out leather, they at first  seemed puzzled, but then delighted. They quickly put them on, then  stroking the beautiful clothes on their bodies they sang:

Then they hopped and danced about, jumping over chairs and benches.  Finally they danced out of the house. They never returned, but the  shoemaker prospered, succeeding in everything that he did.


At first the girl did not know what she should do, but finally they  convinced her to accept. It would not be right, they said, to decline such  an invitation.
Three elves came and led her to a hollow mountain where the little people  lived. Everything there was small, but more ornate and splendid than can  be described. The new mother was lying in a bed of ebony decorated with  pearl buttons. The covers were embroidered with gold. The cradle was made  of ivory, and the bathtub of gold. The girl stood in as godmother, and  then wanted to go back home, but the elves asked her fervently to stay  with them for three days. She agreed to do so, and the time passed   pleasantly and joyfully. The little people did everything to make her  happy.
Finally she wanted to return home. They filled her pockets with gold and  led her outside the mountain. She arrived home. Wanting to begin her work,  she picked up the broom that was still standing in the corner and started  to sweep. Then some strange people came out of the house and asked her who  she was and what she was doing there. It was not three days, as she  thought, that she had spent in the mountain with the little men, but  rather seven years. In the meantime her former employers had died.



And he began laughing about it. When he laughed, a band of little elves  suddenly appeared. They brought the rightful child, set it on the hearth,  and took the changeling away.

The Robber Bridegroom

Not long afterward a suitor came who appeared to be very rich, and  because the miller could find no fault with him, he promised his daughter  to him.
The girl, however, did not like him as much as a bride should like her  bridegroom. She did not trust him, and whenever she saw him or thought  about him, she felt within her heart a sense of horror.
One time he said to her, "You are engaged to marry me, but you have  never once paid me a visit."
The girl replied, "I don't know where your house is."
Then the bridegroom said, "My house is out in the dark woods."
Looking for an excuse, she said that she would not be able to find the  way there.
The bridegroom said, "Next Sunday you must come out to me. I have  already invited guests. I will make a trail of ashes, so that you can find  your way through the woods."
When Sunday came, and it was time for the girl to start on her way, she  became frightened, although she herself did not know exactly why. In order  to mark the path, she filled both her pockets full of peas and lentils. At  the entrance of the forest there was a trail of ashes, which she followed,  but at every step she threw a couple of peas to the ground, to the right  and to the left. She walked almost the whole day until she came to the  middle of the woods, where it was the darkest, and there stood a solitary  house. She did not like it, because it looked so dark and sinister. She  went inside, but no one was there. It was totally quiet.
Suddenly a voice called out:
"Could you tell me," said the girl, "if my bridegroom lives here?"
"Oh, you poor child," replied the old woman, "where did you come from?  You are in a murderer's den. You think you are a bride soon to be married,  but it is death that you will be marrying. Look, they made me put a large  kettle of water on the fire. When they have captured you, they will chop  you to pieces without mercy, cook you, and eat you, for they are  cannibals. If I do not show you compassion and save you, you are doomed."
With this the old woman led her behind a large barrel where she could  not be seen.
"Be quiet as a mouse." she said. "Do not make a sound or move, or all  will be over with you. Tonight when the robbers are asleep we will escape.  I have long waited for an opportunity."
This had scarcely happened when the godless band came home. They were  dragging with them another maiden. They were drunk and paid no attention  to her screams and sobs.
They gave her wine to drink, three glasses full, one glass of white,  one glass of red, and one glass of yellow, which caused her heart to  break. Then they ripped off her fine clothes, laid her on a table, chopped  her beautiful body in pieces and sprinkled salt on it. The poor bride  behind the barrel trembled and shook, for she saw well what fate the  robbers had planned for her.
One of them noticed a gold ring on the murdered girl's little finger.  Because it did not come off easily, he took an ax and chopped the finger  off, but it flew into the air and over the barrel, falling right into the  bride's lap. The robber took a light and looked for it, but could not find  it.
Then another one said, "Did you look behind the large barrel?"
But the old woman cried out, "Come and eat. You can continue looking in  the morning. That finger won't run away from you."
Then the robbers said, "The old woman is right." They gave up their  search and sat down to eat. The old woman poured a sleeping-potion into  their wine, so that they soon lay down in the cellar and fell asleep,  snoring.
When the bride heard them snoring she came out from behind the barrel,  and had to step over the sleepers, for they lay all in rows on the ground.  She was afraid that she might awaken one of them, but God helped her, and  she got through safely.
The old woman went upstairs with her, opened the door, and they hurried  out of the murderer's den as fast as they could.
The wind had blown away the trail of ashes, but the peas and lentils  had sprouted and grown up, and showed them the way in the moonlight. They  walked all night, arriving at the mill the next morning. Then the girl  told her father everything, just as it had happened.
When the wedding day came, the bridegroom appeared. The miller had  invited all his relatives and acquaintances. As they sat at the table,  each one was asked to tell something. The bride sat still and said  nothing.
Then the bridegroom said to the bride, "Come, sweetheart, don't you  know anything? Tell us something, like the others have done."
She answered:
With these words she pulled out the finger and showed it to everyone  who was there.
The robber, who had during this story become as white as chalk, jumped  up and tried to escape, but the guests held him fast, and turned him over  to the courts. Then he and his whole band were executed for their shameful  deeds.

Herr Korbes

Not long afterward they met a cat, who said, "Where are you going?"
The rooster answered, "We're on our way to Herr Korbes's house."
"Take me with you," said the cat.
The rooster answered, "Gladly. Climb on behind, so you won't fall off  the front. Be careful not to get my red wheels dirty. Roll, wheels.  Whistle, mice. We're on our way to Herr Korbes's house."
Then a millstone came along, then an egg, then a duck, then a pin, and  finally a needle. They all climbed aboard the carriage and rode with them.
But when they arrived at Herr Korbes's house, he was not there. The  mice pulled the carriage into the barn. The hen and the rooster flew onto  a pole. The cat sat down in the fireplace and the duck in the water  bucket. The egg rolled itself up in a towel. The pin stuck itself into a  chair cushion. The needle jumped onto the bed in the middle of the pillow.  The millstone lay down above the door.
Then Herr Korbes came home. He went to the fireplace, wanting to make a  fire, and the cat threw ashes into his face. He ran quickly into the  kitchen to wash himself, and the duck splashed water into his face. He  wanted to dry himself off with the towel, but the egg rolled against him,  broke, and glued his eyes shut. Wanting to rest, he sat down in the chair,  and the pin pricked him. He fell into a rage and threw himself onto his  bed, but when he laid his head on the pillow, the needle pricked him,  causing him to scream and run out of the house. As he ran through the  front door the millstone jumped down and struck him dead.
Herr Korbes must have been a very wicked man.

The Godfather

The stranger gave him a little bottle of water, and said, "This is miraculous water. You can heal the sick with it. But you must see where Death is standing. If he is standing by the patient's head, give the patient some of the water and he will be healed, but if Death is standing by his feet all efforts will be in vain, for then the sick man must die."
From this time forth, the man could always say whether a patient could be saved or not. He became famous for his skill, and earned a great deal of money. Once he was called in to the king's child, and when he entered, he saw Death standing by the child's head, and he cured it with the water. The same thing happened a second time, but the third time Death was standing by its feet, so the child had to die.
Now the man wanted to visit his godfather one time and tell him what had happened with the water. He entered the house, but the strangest things were going on there. On the first flight of stairs, the dustpan and the broom were fighting, and violently hitting one other.
He asked them, "Where does the godfather live?"
The broom answered, "Up one more flight of stairs."
When he came to the second flight, he saw a heap of dead fingers lying. He asked, "Where does the godfather live?"
One of the fingers answered, "Up one more flight of stairs."
On the third flight lay a heap of dead men's heads, and they directed him still another flight higher. On the fourth flight, he saw fish on the fire, sizzling in a pan and baking themselves. They too said, "Up one more flight of stairs."
And when he had climbed the fifth, he came to the door of a room and peeped through the keyhole. There he saw the godfather who had a pair of long horns. When he opened the door and went in, the godfather quickly got into bed and covered himself up.
The man then said, "Godfather, sir, strange things are going on in your house. When I came to your first flight of stairs, the dustpan and the broom were fighting, and violently hitting one another."
"How stupid you are," said the godfather. "That was the servant-boy and the maid talking to each other."
"But on the second flight I saw dead fingers lying there."
"Oh, how silly you are. Those were some roots of scorzonera."
"On the third flight lay a heap of dead men's heads."
Foolish man, those were heads of cabbage."
"On the fourth flight I saw fish in a pan, which were sizzling and baking themselves." When he had said that, the fish came and served themselves up.
"And when I got to the fifth flight, I peeped through the keyhole of a door, and there, Godfather, I saw you and you had long, long horns."
"Oh, that is not true."
The man became frightened and ran out, and if he had not done so, who knows what the godfather would have done to him?

Frau Trude

Her parents strictly forbade her, saying: "Frau Trude is a wicked woman who commits godless acts.  If you go there, you will no longer be our child.
But the girl paid no attention to her parents and went to Frau Trude's place anyway.
When she arrived there, Frau Trude asked: "Why are you so pale?"
"Oh," she answered, trembling all over, "I saw something that frightened me."
"What did you see?"
"I saw a black man on your steps."
"That was a charcoal burner."
"Then I saw a green man."
"That was a huntsman."
"Then I saw a blood-red man."
"That was a butcher."
"Oh, Frau Trude, it frightened me when I looked through your window and could not see you, but instead saw the devil with a head of fire."
"Aha!" she said.  "So you saw the witch properly outfitted.  I have been waiting for you and wanting you for a long time.  Light the way for me now!"
With that she turned to girl into a block of wood and threw it into the fire.  When it was thoroughly aglow she sat down next to it, and warmed herself by it, saying: "It gives such a bright light!"


Godfather Death

The man said, "Who are you?"
"I am God."
"Then I do not wish to have you for a godfather," said the man. "You give  to the rich, and let the poor starve."
Thus spoke the man, for he did not know how wisely God divides out wealth  and poverty. Then he turned away from the Lord, and went on his way.
Then the devil came to him and said, "What are you looking for? If you  will take me as your child's godfather, I will give him an abundance of  gold and all the joys of the world as well."
The man asked, "Who are you?"
"I am the devil."
"Then I do not wish to have you for a godfather," said the man. You  deceive mankind and lead them astray."
He went on his way, and then Death, on his withered legs, came walking  toward him, and said, "Take me as your child's godfather."
The man asked, "Who are you?"
"I am Death, who makes everyone equal."
Then the man said, "You are the right one. You take away the rich as well  as the poor, without distinction. You shall be my child's godfather.
Death answered, "I will make your child rich and famous, for he who has me  for a friend cannot fail."
The man said, "Next Sunday is the baptism. Be there on time."
Death appeared as he had promised, and served as godfather in an orderly  manner.
After the boy came of age his godfather appeared to him one day and asked  him to go with him. He took him out into the woods and showed him an herb  that grew there, saying, "Now you shall receive your godfather's present.  I will turn you into a famous physician. Whenever you are called to a sick  person I will appear to you. If I stand at the sick person's head, you may  say with confidence that you can make him well again; then give him some  of this herb, and he will recover. But if I stand at the sick person's  feet, he is mine, and you must say that he is beyond help, and that no  physician in the world could save him. But beware of using this herb  against my will, or something very bad will happen to you."
It was not long before the young man had become the most famous physician  in the whole world. People said of him, "He only needs to look at the sick  in order to immediately know their condition, whether they will regain  their health, or are doomed to die." And people came to him from far and  wide, taking him to their sick, and giving him so much money that he soon  became a wealthy man.
Now it came to pass that the king became ill. The physician was summoned  and was told to say if a recovery were possible. However, when he  approached the bed, Death was standing at the sick man's feet, and so no  herb on earth would be able to help him.
"If I could only deceive death for once," thought the physician. "He will  be angry, of course, but because I am his godson he will shut one eye. I  will risk it." He therefore took hold of the sick man and laid him the  other way around, so that Death was now standing at his head. Then he gave  the king some of the herb, and he recovered and became healthy again.
However, Death came to the physician, made a dark and angry face,  threatened him with his finger, and said, "You have betrayed me. I will  overlook it this time because you are my godson, but if you dare to do it  again, it will cost you your neck, for I will take you yourself away with  me."
Soon afterward the king's daughter became seriously ill. She was his only  child, and he cried day and night until his eyes were going blind. Then he  proclaimed that whosoever rescued her from death should become her husband  and inherit the crown.
When the physician came to the sick girl's bed he saw Death at her feet.  He should have remembered his godfather's warning, but he was so  infatuated by the princess's great beauty and the prospect of becoming her  husband that he threw all thought to the winds. He did not see that Death  was looking at him angrily, lifting his hand into the air, and threatening  him with his withered fist. He lifted up the sick girl and placed her head  where her feet had been. Then he gave her some of the herb, and her cheeks  immediately turned red, and life stirred in her once again.
Death, seeing that he had been cheated out of his property for a second  time, approached the physician with long strides and said, "You are  finished. Now it is your turn."
Then Death seized him so firmly with his ice-cold hand that he could not  resist, and led him into an underground cavern. There the physician saw  how thousands and thousands of candles were burning in endless rows, some  large, others medium-sized, others small. Every instant some died out, and  others were relit, so that the little flames seemed to be jumping about in  constant change.
"See," said Death, "these are the life-lights of mankind. The large ones  belong to children, the medium-sized ones to married people in their best  years, and the little ones to old people. However, even children and young  people often have only a tiny candle."
"Show me my life-light," said the physician, thinking that it still would  be very large.
Death pointed to a little stump that was just threatening to go out, and  said, "See, there it is."
"Oh, dear godfather," said the horrified physician, "light a new one for  me. Do it as a favor to me, so that I can enjoy my life, and become king  and the husband of the beautiful princess."
"I cannot," answered Death. "One must go out before a new one is lighted."
"Then set the old one onto a new one that will go on burning after the old  one is finished," begged the physician.
Death pretended that he was going to fulfill this wish and took hold of a  large new candle, but, desiring  revenge, he purposely made a mistake in  relighting it, and the little piece fell down and went out. The physician  immediately fell to the ground, and he too was now in the hands of Death.


Fitcher's Bird

Everything was splendid in the house, and he gave her everything that she  wanted. He said, "My dear, you will like it here with me. You will have  everything that your heart desires."
So it went for a few days, and then he said to her, "I have to go away and  leave you alone for a short time. Here are the house keys. You may go  everywhere and look at everything except for the one room that this little  key here unlocks. I forbid you to go there on the penalty of death."
He also gave her an egg, saying, "Take good care of this egg. You should  carry it with you at all times, for if you should loose it great  misfortune would follow."
She took the keys and the egg, and promised to take good care of  everything.
As soon as he had gone she walked about in the house from top to bottom  examining everything. The rooms glistened with silver and gold, and she  thought that she had never seen such splendor.
Finally she came to the forbidden door. She wanted to pass it by, but  curiosity gave her no rest. She examined the key. It looked like any other  one. She put it into the lock and twisted it a little, and then the door  sprang open.
What did she see when she stepped inside? A large bloody basin stood in  the middle, inside which there lay the cut up parts of dead girls. Nearby  there was a wooden block with a glistening ax lying on it.
She was so terrified that the egg, which she was holding in her hand, fell  into the basin. She got it out again and wiped off the blood, but it was  to no avail, for it always came back. She wiped and scrubbed, but she  could not get rid of the stain.
Not long afterward the man returned from his journey, and he immediately  asked for the key and the egg. She handed them to him, shaking all the  while, for he saw from the red stain that she had been in the blood  chamber.
"You went into that chamber against my will," he said, "and now against  your will you shall go into it once again. Your life is finished."
He threw her down, dragged her by her hair into the chamber, cut off her  head on the block, then cut her up into pieces, and her blood flowed out  onto the floor. Then he threw her into the basin with the others.
"Now I will go get the second one," said the sorcerer, and, again  disguised as a poor man, he went to their house begging.
The second sister brought him a piece of bread, and, as he had done to the  first one, he captured her by merely touching her, and he carried her  away. It went with her no better than it had gone with her sister. She let  herself be led astray by her curiosity, opened the blood chamber and  looked inside. When he returned she paid with her life.
Then he went and captured the third sister, but she was clever and sly.  After he had given her the keys and the egg, and had gone away, she  carefully put the egg aside, and then examined the house, entering finally  the forbidden chamber.
Oh, what she saw! He two dear sisters were lying there in the basin,  miserably murdered and chopped to pieces. In spite of this she proceeded  to gather their parts together, placing them back in order: head, body,  arms, and legs. Then, when nothing else was missing, the parts began to  move. They joined together, and the two girls opened their eyes and came  back to life. Rejoicing, they kissed and hugged one another.
When the man returned home he immediately demanded the keys and the egg,  and when he was unable to detect any trace of blood on them, he said, "You  have passed the test. You shall be my bride."
He now had no more power over her and had to do whatever she demanded.
"Good," she answered, "but first you must take a basketful of gold to my  father and mother. You yourself must carry it there on your back. In the  meanwhile I shall make preparations for the wedding."
Then she ran to her sisters, whom she had hidden in a closet, and said,  "The moment is here when I can rescue you. The evildoer himself shall  carry you home. As soon as you have arrived at home send help to me."
She put them both into a basket, then covered them entirely with gold, so  that nothing could be seen of them.
Then she called the sorcerer in and said, "Now carry this basket away, but  you are not to stop and rest underway. Take care, for I shall be watching  you through my little window."
The sorcerer lifted the basket onto his back and walked away with it.  However, it pressed down so heavily on him that the sweat ran from his  face. He sat down, wanting to rest, but immediately one of the girls in  the basket called out, "I am looking through my little window, and I can  see that you are resting. Walk on!"
He thought that his bride was calling to him, so he got up again. Then he  again wanted to sit down, but someone immediately called out, "I am  looking through my little window, and I can see that you are resting. Walk  on!"
Every time that he stopped walking, someone called out, and he had to walk  on until, groaning and out of breath, he brought the basket with the gold  and the two girls to their parents' house.
At home the bride was making preparations for the wedding feast, to which  she had had the sorcerer's friends invited. Then she took a skull with  grinning teeth, adorned it with jewelry and with a wreath of flowers,  carried it to the attic window, and let it look out.
When everything was ready she dipped herself into a barrel of honey, then  cut open the bed and rolled around in it until she looked like a strange  bird, and no one would have been able to recognize her. Then she walked  out of the house.
Underway some of the wedding guests met her, and they asked, "You,  Fitcher's bird, where are you coming from?"
"I am coming from Fitcher's house."
"What is his young bride doing there?"
"She has swept the house from bottom to top, and now she is looking out of  the attic window."
Finally her bridegroom met her. He was slowly walking back home, and, like  the others, he asked, "You, Fitcher's bird, where are you coming from?"
"I am coming from Fitcher's house."
"What is my young bride doing there?"
"She has swept the house from bottom to top, and now she is looking out of  the attic window."
The bridegroom looked up. Seeing the decorated skull, he thought it was  his bride, and he waved a friendly greeting to her.
After he and all his guests had gone into the house, the bride's brothers  and relatives arrived. They had been sent to rescue her. After closing up  all the doors of the house so that no one could escape, they set it afire,  and the sorcerer, together with his gang, all burned to death.

The Juniper Tree

Long ago, at least two thousand years, there was a rich man who had a beautiful and pious wife, and they loved each other dearly. However, they had no children, though they wished very much to have some, and the woman prayed for them day and night, but they didn't get any, and they didn't get any.
In front of their house there was a courtyard where there stood a juniper tree. One day in winter the woman was standing beneath it, peeling herself an apple, and while she was thus peeling the apple, she cut her finger, and the blood fell into the snow.
"Oh," said the woman. She sighed heavily, looked at the blood before her, and was most unhappy. "If only I had a child as red as blood and as white as snow." And as she said that, she became quite contented, and felt sure that it was going to happen.
Then she went into the house, and a month went by, and the snow was gone. And two months, and everything was green. And three months, and all the flowers came out of the earth. And four months, and all the trees in the woods grew thicker, and the green branches were all entwined in one another, and the birds sang until the woods resounded and the blossoms fell from the trees. Then the fifth month passed, and she stood beneath the juniper tree, which smelled so sweet that her heart jumped for joy, and she fell on her knees and was beside herself. And when the sixth month was over, the fruit was thick and large, and then she was quite still. And after the seventh month she picked the juniper berries and ate them greedily. Then she grew sick and sorrowful. Then the eighth month passed, and she called her husband to her, and cried, and said, "If I die, then bury me beneath the juniper tree." Then she was quite comforted and happy until the next month was over, and then she had a child as white as snow and as red as blood, and when she saw it, she was so happy that she died.
Her husband buried her beneath the juniper tree, and he began to cry bitterly. After some time he was more at ease, and although he still cried, he could bear it. And some time later he took another wife.
He had a daughter by the second wife, but the first wife's child was a little son, and he was as red as blood and as white as snow. When the woman looked at her daughter, she loved her very much, but then she looked at the little boy, and it pierced her heart, for she thought that he would always stand in her way, and she was always thinking how she could get the entire inheritance for her daughter. And the Evil One filled her mind with this until she grew very angry with the little boy, and she pushed him from one corner to the other and slapped him here and cuffed him there, until the poor child was always afraid, for when he came home from school there was nowhere he could find any peace.
One day the woman had gone upstairs to her room, when her little daughter came up too, and said, "Mother, give me an apple."
"Yes, my child," said the woman, and gave her a beautiful apple out of the chest. The chest had a large heavy lid with a large sharp iron lock.
"Mother," said the little daughter, "is brother not to have one too?"
This made the woman angry, but she said, "Yes, when he comes home from school."
When from the window she saw him coming, it was as though the Evil One came over her, and she grabbed the apple and took it away from her daughter, saying, "You shall not have one before your brother."
She threw the apple into the chest, and shut it. Then the little boy came in the door, and the Evil One made her say to him kindly, "My son, do you want an apple?" And she looked at him fiercely.
"Mother," said the little boy, "how angry you look. Yes, give me an apple."
Then it seemed to her as if she had to persuade him. "Come with me," she said, opening the lid of the chest. "Take out an apple for yourself." And while the little boy was leaning over, the Evil One prompted her, and crash! she slammed down the lid, and his head flew off, falling among the red apples.
Then fear overcame her, and she thought, "Maybe I can get out of this." So she went upstairs to her room to her chest of drawers, and took a white scarf out of the top drawer, and set the head on the neck again, tying the scarf around it so that nothing could be seen. Then she set him on a chair in front of the door and put the apple in his hand.
After this Marlene came into the kitchen to her mother, who was standing by the fire with a pot of hot water before her which she was stirring around and around.
"Mother," said Marlene, "brother is sitting at the door, and he looks totally white and has an apple in his hand. I asked him to give me the apple, but he did not answer me, and I was very frightened."
"Go back to him," said her mother, "and if he will not answer you, then box his ears."
So Marlene went to him and said, "Brother, give me the apple." But he was silent, so she gave him one on the ear, and his head fell off. Marlene was terrified, and began crying and screaming, and ran to her mother, and said, "Oh, mother, I have knocked my brother's head off," and she cried and cried and could not be comforted.
"Marlene," said the mother, "what have you done? Be quiet and don't let anyone know about it. It cannot be helped now. We will cook him into stew."
Then the mother took the little boy and chopped him in pieces, put him into the pot, and cooked him into stew. But Marlene stood by crying and crying, and all her tears fell into the pot, and they did not need any salt.
Then the father came home, and sat down at the table and said, "Where is my son?" And the mother served up a large, large dish of stew, and Marlene cried and could not stop.
Then the father said again, "Where is my son?"
"Oh," said the mother, "he has gone across the country to his mother's great uncle. He will stay there awhile."
"What is he doing there? He did not even say good-bye to me."
"Oh, he wanted to go, and asked me if he could stay six weeks. He will be well taken care of there."
"Oh," said the man, "I am unhappy. It isn't right. He should have said good-bye to me." With that he began to eat, saying, "Marlene, why are you crying? Your brother will certainly come back."
Then he said, "Wife, this food is delicious. Give me some more." And the more he ate the more he wanted, and he said, "Give me some more. You two shall have none of it. It seems to me as if it were all mine." And he ate and ate, throwing all the bones under the table, until he had finished it all.
Marlene went to her chest of drawers, took her best silk scarf from the bottom drawer, and gathered all the bones from beneath the table and tied them up in her silk scarf, then carried them outside the door, crying tears of blood.
She laid them down beneath the juniper tree on the green grass, and after she had put them there, she suddenly felt better and did not cry anymore.
Then the juniper tree began to move. The branches moved apart, then moved together again, just as if someone were rejoicing and clapping his hands. At the same time a mist seemed to rise from the tree, and in the center of this mist it burned like a fire, and a beautiful bird flew out of the fire singing magnificently, and it flew high into the air, and when it was gone, the juniper tree was just as it had been before, and the cloth with the bones was no longer there. Marlene, however, was as happy and contented as if her brother were still alive. And she went merrily into the house, sat down at the table, and ate.
Then the bird flew away and lit on a goldsmith's house, and began to sing:
The goldsmith was sitting in his workshop making a golden chain, when he heard the bird sitting on his roof and singing. The song seemed very beautiful to him. He stood up, but as he crossed the threshold he lost one of his slippers. However, he went right up the middle of the street with only one slipper and one sock on. He had his leather apron on, and in one hand he had a golden chain and in the other his tongs. The sun was shining brightly on the street.
He walked onward, then stood still and said to the bird, "Bird," he said, "how beautifully you can sing. Sing that piece again for me."
"No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. Give me the golden chain, and then I will sing it again for you."
The goldsmith said, "Here is the golden chain for you. Now sing that song again for me." Then the bird came and took the golden chain in his right claw, and went and sat in front of the goldsmith, and sang:
Then the bird flew away to a shoemaker, and lit on his roof and sang:
Hearing this, the shoemaker ran out of doors in his shirtsleeves, and looked up at his roof, and had to hold his hand in front of his eyes to keep the sun from blinding him. "Bird," said he, "how beautifully you can sing."
Then he called in at his door, "Wife, come outside. There is a bird here. Look at this bird. He certainly can sing." Then he called his daughter and her children, and the journeyman, and the apprentice, and the maid, and they all came out into the street and looked at the bird and saw how beautiful he was, and what fine red and green feathers he had, and how his neck was like pure gold, and how his eyes shone like stars in his head.
"Bird," said the shoemaker, "now sing that song again for me."
"No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. You must give me something."
"Wife," said the man, "go into the shop. There is a pair of red shoes on the top shelf. Bring them down." Then the wife went and brought the shoes.
"There, bird," said the man, "now sing that piece again for me." Then the bird came and took the shoes in his left claw, and flew back to the roof, and sang:
When he had finished his song he flew away. In his right claw he had the chain and in his left one the shoes. He flew far away to a mill, and the mill went clickety-clack, clickety-clack, clickety-clack. In the mill sat twenty miller's apprentices cutting a stone, and chiseling chip-chop, chip-chop, chip-chop. And the mill went clickety-clack, clickety-clack, clickety-clack.
Then the bird went and sat on a linden tree which stood in front of the mill, and sang:
Then one of them stopped working.
Then two more stopped working and listened,
Then four more stopped,
Now only eight only were chiseling,
Now only five,
Now only one,
Then the last one stopped also, and heard the last words. "Bird," said he, "how beautifully you sing. Let me hear that too. Sing it once more for me."
"No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. Give me the millstone, and then I will sing it again."
"Yes," he said, "if it belonged only to me, you should have it."
"Yes," said the others, "if he sings again he can have it."
Then the bird came down, and the twenty millers took a beam and lifted the stone up. Yo-heave-ho! Yo-heave-ho! Yo-heave-ho!
The bird stuck his neck through the hole and put the stone on as if it were a collar, then flew to the tree again, and sang:
When he was finished singing, he spread his wings, and in his right claw he had the chain, and in his left one the shoes, and around his neck the millstone. He flew far away to his father's house.
In the room the father, the mother, and Marlene were sitting at the table.
The father said, "I feel so contented. I am so happy."
"Not I," said the mother, "I feel uneasy, just as if a bad storm were coming."
But Marlene just sat and cried and cried.
Then the bird flew up, and as it seated itself on the roof, the father said, "Oh, I feel so truly happy, and the sun is shining so beautifully outside. I feel as if I were about to see some old acquaintance again."
"Not I," said the woman, "I am so afraid that my teeth are chattering, and I feel like I have fire in my veins." And she tore open her bodice even more. Marlene sat in a corner crying. She held a handkerchief before her eyes and cried until it was wet clear through.
Then the bird seated itself on the juniper tree, and sang:
The mother stopped her ears and shut her eyes, not wanting to see or hear, but there was a roaring in her ears like the fiercest storm, and her eyes burned and flashed like lightning.
"Oh, mother," said the man, "that is a beautiful bird. He is singing so splendidly, and the sun is shining so warmly, and it smells like pure cinnamon."
Then Marlene laid her head on her knees and cried and cried, but the man said, "I am going out. I must see the bird up close."
"Oh, don't go," said the woman, "I feel as if the whole house were shaking and on fire."
But the man went out and looked at the bird.
With this the bird dropped the golden chain, and it fell right around the man's neck, so exactly around it that it fit beautifully. Then the man went in and said, "Just look what a beautiful bird that is, and what a beautiful golden chain he has given me, and how nice it looks."
But the woman was terrified. She fell down on the floor in the room, and her cap fell off her head. Then the bird sang once more:
"I wish I were a thousand fathoms beneath the earth, so I would not have to hear that!"
Then the woman fell down as if she were dead.
"Oh," said Marlene, "I too will go out and see if the bird will give me something." Then she went out.
He threw the shoes down to her.
Then she was contented and happy. She put on the new red shoes and danced and leaped into the house. "Oh," she said, "I was so sad when I went out and now I am so contented. That is a splendid bird, he has given me a pair of red shoes."
"No," said the woman, jumping to her feet and with her hair standing up like flames of fire, "I feel as if the world were coming to an end. I too, will go out and see if it makes me feel better."
And as she went out the door, crash! the bird threw the millstone on her head, and it crushed her to death.
The father and Marlene heard it and went out. Smoke, flames, and fire were rising from the place, and when that was over, the little brother was standing there, and he took his father and Marlene by the hand, and all three were very happy, and they went into the house, sat down at the table, and ate.

Old Sultan

His wife, who felt pity for the faithful animal, answered, "He has served us so long, and been so faithful, that we might well give him his keep."
"What?" said the man. "You are not very bright.  He doesn't have a tooth left in his mouth, and no thief is afraid of him. He can go now.  If he has served us, he has eaten well for it."
The poor dog, who was lying stretched out in the sun not far off, heard everything, and was sorry that tomorrow was to be his last day.  He had a good friend, the wolf, and he crept out in the evening into the forest to him, and complained of the fate that awaited him.
"Listen, kinsman," said the wolf, "be of good cheer. I will help you out of your trouble.  I have thought of something.  Tomorrow, early in the morning, your master is going with his wife to make hay, and they will take their little child with them, for no one will be left behind in the house. While they are at work they lay the child behind the hedge in the shade. You lie down there too, just as if you wanted to guard it.  Then I will come out of the woods, and carry off the child.  You must run swiftly after me, as if you would take it away from me.  I will let it fall, and you will take it back to its parents, who will think that you have rescued it, and will be far too grateful to do you any harm. On the contrary, you will be treated royally, and they will never let you want for anything again."
This idea pleased the dog, and it was carried out just as planned.  The father screamed when he saw the wolf running across the field with his child, but when Old Sultan brought it back, he was full of joy, and stroked him and said, "Not a hair of yours shall be hurt. You shall eat free bread as long as you live."
And to his wife he said, "Go home at once and make Old Sultan some bread soup that he will not have to bite. And bring the pillow from my bed.  I will give it to him to lie on.  From then on Old Sultan was as well off as he could possibly wish.
Soon afterwards the wolf visited him, and was pleased that everything had succeeded so well.  "But, kinsman," he said, "you will just close one eye if, when I have a chance, I carry off one of your master's fat sheep."
"Don't count on that," answered the dog.  "I will remain true to my master. I cannot agree to that."
The wolf thought that this was not spoken in earnest, and he crept up in the night to take away the sheep. But the farmer, to whom the faithful Sultan had told the wolf's plan, was waiting for him and combed his hair cruelly with a flail. The wolf had to flee, but he cried out to the dog, "Just wait, you scoundrel. You'll regret this."
The next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge the dog to come out into the forest and settle the affair. Old Sultan could find no one to be his second but a cat with only three legs, and as they went out together the poor cat limped along, stretching its tail upward with pain.
The wolf and his friend were already at the appointed place, but when they saw their enemy coming, they thought that he was bringing a saber with him, for they mistook the cat's outstretched tail for one.  And when the poor animal hopped on three legs, they thought that each time it was picking up a stone to throw at them.  Then they took fright. The wild boar crept into the underbrush and the wolf jumped up a tree.
As the dog and the cat approached, they wondered why no one was to be seen.  The wild boar, however, had not been able to hide himself completely in the leaves. His ears were still sticking out.  While the cat was looking cautiously about, the boar wiggled his ears, and the cat, who thought it was a mouse, jumped on it and bit down hard.  The boar jumped up screaming loudly, "The guilty one is up in the tree."
The dog and cat looked up and saw the wolf, who was ashamed for having shown such fear, and who then made peace with the dog.


The Six Swans

"Oh, yes, your majesty," she answered, "I can indeed. However, there is  one condition, and if you do not fulfill it, you will never get out of  these woods, and will die here of hunger."
"What sort of condition is it?" asked the king.
"I have a daughter," said the old woman, "who is as beautiful as anyone  you could find in all the world, and who well deserves to become your  wife. If you will make her your queen, I will show you the way out of the  woods."
The king was so frightened that he consented, and the old woman led him to  her cottage, where her daughter was sitting by the fire. She received the  king as if she had been expecting him. He saw that she was very beautiful,  but in spite of this he did not like her, and he could not look at her  without secretly shuddering.
After he had lifted the girl onto his horse, the old woman showed him the  way, and the king arrived again at his royal castle, where the wedding was  celebrated.
The king had been married before, and by his first wife he had seven  children, six boys and one girl. He loved them more than anything else in  the world.
Fearing that the stepmother might not treat them well, even do them harm,  he took them to a secluded castle which stood in the middle of a forest.  It was so well hidden, and the way was so difficult to find, that he  himself would not have found it, if a wise woman had not given him a ball  of magic yarn. Whenever he threw it down in front of him, it would unwind  itself and show him the way.
However, the king went out to his dear children so often that the queen  took notice of his absence. She was curious and wanted to know what he was  doing out there all alone in the woods. She gave a large sum of money to  his servants, and they revealed the secret to her. They also told her  about the ball of yarn which could point out the way all by itself.
She did not rest until she discovered where the king kept the ball of  yarn. Then she made some little shirts of white silk. Having learned the  art of witchcraft from her mother, she sewed a magic charm into each one  of them. Then one day when the king had ridden out hunting, she took the  little shirts and went into the woods. The ball of yarn showed her the  way.
The children, seeing that someone was approaching from afar, thought that  their dear father was coming to them. Full of joy, they ran to meet him.  Then she threw one of the shirts over each of them, and when the shirts  touched their bodies they were transformed into swans, and they flew away  over the woods.
The queen went home very pleased, believing that she had gotten rid of her  stepchildren. However, the girl had not run out with her brothers, and the  queen knew nothing about her.
The next day the king went to visit his children, but he found no one  there but the girl.
"Where are your brothers?" asked the king.
"Oh, dear father," she answered, "they have gone away and left me alone."
Then she told him that from her window she had seen how her brothers had  flown away over the woods as swans. She showed him the feathers that they  had dropped into the courtyard, and which she had gathered up.
The king mourned, but he did not think that the queen had done this wicked  deed. Fearing that the girl would be stolen away from him as well, he  wanted to take her away with him, but she was afraid of her stepmother and  begged the king to let her stay just this one more night in the castle in  the woods.
The poor girl thought, "I can no longer stay here. I will go and look for  my brothers."
And when night came she ran away and went straight into the woods. She  walked the whole night long without stopping, and the next day as well,  until she was too tired to walk any further.
Then she saw a hunter's hut and went inside. She found a room with six  little beds, but she did not dare to get into one of them. Instead she  crawled under one of them and lay down on the hard ground where she  intended to spend the night.
The sun was about to go down when she heard a rushing sound and saw six  swans fly in through the window. Landing on the floor, they  blew on one  another, and blew all their feathers off. Then their swan-skins came off  just like shirts. The girl looked at them and recognized her brothers. She  was happy and crawled out from beneath the bed. The brothers were no less  happy to see their little sister, but their happiness did not last long.
"You cannot stay here," they said to her. "This is a robbers' den. If they  come home and find you, they will murder you."
"Can't you protect me?" asked the little sister.
"No," they answered. "We can take off our swan-skins for only a quarter  hour each evening. Only during that time do we have our human forms. After  that we are again transformed into swans."
Crying, the little sister said, "Can you not be redeemed?"
"Alas, no," they answered. "The conditions are too difficult. You would  not be allowed to speak or to laugh for six years, and in that time you  would have to sew together six little shirts from asters for us. And if a  single word were to come from your mouth, all your work would be lost."
After the brothers had said this, the quarter hour was over, and they flew  out the window again as swans.
Nevertheless, the girl firmly resolved to redeem her brothers, even if it  should cost her her life. She left the hunter's hut, went to the middle of  the woods, seated herself in a tree, and there spent the night. The next  morning she went out and gathered asters and began to sew. She could not  speak with anyone, and she had no desire to laugh. She sat there, looking  only at her work.
After she had already spent a long time there it happened that the king of  the land was hunting in these woods. His huntsmen came to the tree where  the girl was sitting.
They called to her, saying, "Who are you?" But she did not answer.
"Come down to us," they said. "We will not harm you."
She only shook her head. When they pressed her further with questions, she  threw her golden necklace down to them, thinking that this would satisfy  them. But they did not stop, so she then threw her belt down to them, and  when this did not help, her garters, and then -- one thing at a time --  everything that she had on  and could do without, until finally she had  nothing left but her shift.
The huntsmen, however, not letting themselves be dissuaded, climbed the  tree, lifted the girl down, and took her to the king.
The king asked, "Who are you? What are you doing in that tree?"
But she did not answer. He asked her in every language that he knew, but  she remained as speechless as a fish. Because she was so beautiful, the  king's heart was touched, and he fell deeply in love with her. He put his  cloak around her, lifted her onto his horse in front of himself, and took  her to his castle. There he had her dressed in rich garments, and she  glistened in her beauty like bright daylight, but no one could get a word  from her.
At the table he seated her by his side, and her modest manners and  courtesy pleased him so much that he said, "My desire is to marry her, and  no one else in the world."
A few days later they were married.
Now the king had a wicked mother who was dissatisfied with this marriage  and spoke ill of the young queen. "Who knows," she said, "where the girl  who cannot speak comes from? She is not worthy of a king."
A year later, after the queen had brought her first child into the world,  the old woman took it away from her while she was asleep, and smeared her  mouth with blood. Then she went to the king and accused her of being a  cannibal. The king could not believe this, and would not allow anyone to  harm her. She, however, sat the whole time sewing on the shirts, and  caring for nothing else.
The next time, when she again gave birth to a beautiful boy, the deceitful  mother-in-law did the same thing again, but the king could not bring  himself to believe her accusations.
He said, "She is too pious and good to do anything like that. If she were  not speechless, and if she could defend herself, her innocence would come  to light."
But when the old woman stole away a newly born child for the third time,  and accused the queen, who did not defend herself with a single word, the  king had no choice but to bring her to justice, and she was sentenced to  die by fire.
When the day came for the sentence to be carried out, it was also the last  day of the six years during which she had not been permitted to speak or  to laugh, and she had thus delivered her dear brothers from the magic  curse. The six shirts were finished. Only the left sleeve of the last one  was missing. When she was led to the stake, she laid the shirts on her  arm. Standing there, as the fire was about to be lighted, she looked  around, and six swans came flying through the air. Seeing that their  redemption was near, her heart leapt with joy.
The swans rushed towards her, swooping down so that she could throw the  shirts over them. As soon as the shirts touched them their swan-skins fell  off, and her brothers stood before her in their own bodies, vigorous and  handsome. However, the youngest was missing his left arm. In its place he  had a swan's wing.
They embraced and kissed one another. Then the queen went to the king, who  was greatly moved, and she began to speak, saying, "Dearest husband, now I  may speak and reveal to you that I am innocent, and falsely accused."
Then she told him of the treachery of the old woman who had taken away  their three children and hidden them.
Then to the king's great joy they were brought forth. As a punishment, the  wicked mother-in-law was tied to the stake and burned to ashes. But the  king and the queen with her six brothers lived many long years in  happiness and peace.


Little Brier-Rose

Then it happened one day while the queen was sitting in her bath, that  a frog crept out of the water onto  the ground and said to her, "Your wish shall be fulfilled, and before a year passes you will bring a daughter into the world."
What the frog said did happen, and the queen gave birth to a girl who  was so beautiful that the king  could not contain himself for joy, and he ordered a great celebration. He invited not only his relatives, friends, and acquaintances, but also  the wise women so that they would be kindly disposed toward the child. There  were thirteen of them in his kingdom, but because he had only twelve golden  plates from which they were to eat, one of them had to remain at home.
The feast was celebrated with great splendor, and at its conclusion the  wise women presented the child with their magic gifts. The one gave her virtue,  the second one beauty, the third one wealth, and so on with everything that  one could wish for on earth.
The eleventh one had just pronounced her blessing when the thirteenth  one suddenly walked in. She  wanted to avenge herself for not having been invited, and without greeting  anyone or even looking at them  she cried out with a loud voice, "In the princess's fifteenth year she  shall prick herself with a spindle and fall  over dead." And without saying another word she turned around and left the  hall.
Everyone was horrified, and the twelfth wise woman, who had not yet  offered her wish, stepped foreward. Because she was unable to undo the wicked  wish, but only to soften it, she  said, "It shall not be her death. The princess will only fall into a hundred-year deep sleep."
The king, wanting to rescue his dear child, issued an order that all spindles in the entire kingdom should be burned. The wise women's gifts  were all fulfilled on the girl, for she  was so beautiful, well behaved, friendly, and intelligent that everyone  who saw her had to love her.
Now it happened that on the day when she turned fifteen years of age  the king and the queen were not at home, and the girl was all alone in the  castle. She walked around from one place to the next, looking into rooms and  chambers as her heart desired. Finally she came to an old tower. She climbed up the  narrow, winding stairs  and arrived at a small door. In the lock there was a rusty key, and when  she turned it the door sprang open. There in a small room sat an old woman  with a spindle busily spinning her flax.
"Good day, old woman," said the princess. "What are you doing there?"
"I am spinning," said the old woman, nodding her head.
"What is that thing that is so merrily bouncing about?" asked the girl, taking hold of the spindle, for she too wanted to spin.
She had no sooner touched the spindle when the magic curse was  fulfilled, and she pricked herself in the  finger. The instant that she felt the prick she fell onto a bed that was standing there, and she lay there in a deep sleep. And this sleep spread  throughout the entire castle. The king and queen, who had just returned home, walked  into the hall and began falling asleep, and all of their attendants as well.  The horses fell asleep in their stalls, the dogs in the courtyard, the pigeons  on the roof, the flies on the walls, and even the fire on the hearth  flickered, stopped moving, and fell asleep. The roast stopped sizzling. The cook, who  was about to pull kitchen boy's hair for having done something wrong, let him  loose and fell asleep. The wind stopped blowing, and outside the castle not a leaf  was stirring in the trees.
Round about the castle a thorn hedge began to grow, and every year it  became higher, until it finally surrounded and covered the entire castle. Finally nothing at all could be seen of it, not even the flag on the roof.
A legend circulated throughout the land about the beautiful sleeping  Little Brier-Rose, for so the princess was called. Legends also told that from time to time princes came, wanting to force their way through the hedge into the  castle. However, they did not succeed, for the thorns held firmly together, as  though they had hands, and the young men became stuck in them, could not free themselves, and died miserably.
Many long, long years later, once again a prince came to the country.  He heard an old man telling about the thorn hedge. It was said that there was  a castle behind it,  in which a beautiful princess named Little Brier-Rose had been asleep for a hundred years, and with her the king and the queen  and all the royal attendants were sleeping. He also knew from his  grandfather that many princes had come and tried to penetrate the thorn hedge, but they had  become stuck in it and died a sorrowful death.
Then the young man said, "I am not afraid. I will go there and see the beautiful Little Brier-Rose."
However much the good old man tried to dissuade him, the prince would  not listen to his words.
The hundred years had just passed, and the day had come when Little  Brier-Rose was to awaken. When the prince approached the thorn hedge, it was nothing  but large, beautiful flowers that separated by themselves, allowing him to  pass through without harm, but then behind him closed back into a hedge.
In the courtyard he saw the horses and spotted hunting dogs lying there asleep, and on the roof the pigeons, perched with their little heads  tucked under they wings. When he walked inside the flies were asleep on the wall,  the cook in the kitchen was still holding up his hand as if he wanted to grab  the boy, and the maid was sitting in front of the black chicken that was  supposed to be plucked. He walked further and saw all the attendants lying asleep  in the hall, and above them near the throne the king and the queen were lying. He walked on still further, and it was so quiet that he could hear his own  breath. Finally he came to the tower and opened the door to the little room where  Little Brier-Rose was sleeping.
There she lay and was so beautiful that he could not take his eyes off her. He bent over and gave her a kiss. When he touched  her with the kiss Little Brier-Rose opened her eyes, awoke, and looked at him kindly.
They went downstairs together, and the king awoke, and the queen, and  all the royal attendants, and they looked at one another in amazement. The horses  in the courtyard stood up and shook themselves. The hunting dogs jumped and  wagged their tails. The pigeons on the roof pulled their little heads out from  beneath their wings, looked around, and flew into the field. The flies on the  walls crept about again. The fire in the kitchen rose up, broke into flames, and cooked the food. The roast began to sizzle once again. The cook boxed the  boy's ears, causing him to cry, and the maid finished plucking the chicken.

Foundling-Bird

The forester climbed the tree, brought the child down, and thought, "I  will take the child home with me,   and bring him up with my Lenchen."
So he took him home, and the two children grew up together. The child  whom he had found on the tree   was called Foundling-Bird, because a bird had carried him away.  Foundling-Bird and Lenchen loved each   other so much, ever so much, that whenever they did not see one another  they were sad.
Now the forester had an old cook. One evening she took two buckets and  began to fetch water. She did   not go out to the well just once, but many times.
Lenchen saw this and said, "Listen, old Sanna, why are you fetching so  much water?"
"If you won't tell anyone, I will tell you."
So Lenchen said that she would not tell anyone, and then the cook said,  "Early tomorrow morning when   the forester is out hunting I will heat the water, and when it is boiling  in the kettle I will throw Foundling-Bird   into it and cook him.
The forester got up very early the next morning and went out hunting.  When he left, the children were still   in bed.
Then Lenchen said to Foundling-Bird, "If you will never leave me, I  will never leave you either."
Foundling-Bird said, "Never, ever."
Then Lenchen said, "Then I will tell you that last night old Sanna  carried so many buckets of water into   the house that I asked her why she was doing that. She said that if I  would not tell anyone she would tell me. I   said that I would be sure not to tell anyone, and she said that early  tomorrow morning when father was out   hunting, she would boil a kettle full of water, throw you into it, and  cook you. But let us hurry and get up, get   dressed, and run away together.
So the two children got up, hurriedly got dressed, and went away.
When the water in the kettle was boiling, the cook went into the  bedroom to get Foundling-Bird and   throw him into it. But when she went to their room and to their beds, both  the children were gone.
Then she became terribly frightened and said to herself, "What will I  say when the forester comes home   and sees that the children are gone. I must hurry and follow them and get  them back again."
Then the cook sent out three servants who were to run after the  children and bring them back. The   children were sitting at the edge of the woods when they saw the three  servants running toward them from   afar.
Lenchen said to Foundling-Bird, "Never leave me, and I will never leave  you."
Foundling-Bird said, "Never, ever."
Then Lenchen said, "You, turn into a rosebush, and I to a rose on it."
When the three servants reached the edge of the woods nothing was there  but a rosebush with one rose   on it, but the children were nowhere."
Then they said, "There is nothing to be done here," and they went home  and told the cook that they had   seen nothing out there but a little rosebush with one rose on it.
Then the old cook scolded them, saying, "You simpletons, you should  have cut the rosebush in two and   then broken off the rose and brought it home with you. Hurry up and do  it."
So they had to go out and look for the second time. The children,  however, saw them coming from afar.
Lenchen said, "Foundling-Bird, never leave me, and I will never leave  you."
Foundling-Bird said, "Never, ever."
Lenchen said, "You, turn into a church, and I to the chandelier in it."
When the three servants arrived, nothing was there but a church with a  chandelier in it. So they said to   one another, "What can we do here? Let us go home."
When they reached home, the cook asked if they had found them, and they  said that they had found   nothing but a church with a chandelier in it.
The cook scolded them, saying, "You fools, why didn't you break down  the church and bring the   chandelier home with you?"
This time the old cook herself got up and with the three servants went  out after the children.
The children, however, saw from afar that the three servants were  coming, with the cook tottering after   them.
Then Lenchen said, "Foundling-Bird, never leave me, and I will never  leave you."
Foundling-Bird said, "Never, ever."
Lenchen said, "Turn into a pond, and I to a duck upon it."
The cook came up to them, and when she saw the pond she leaned out over  it and was about to drink it   up. But the duck quickly came swimming toward her, took hold of her head  with its beak, and pulled her into   the water, where the old witch drowned.
Then the children went home together, and were very happy, and if they  have not died, they are still alive.

King Thrushbeard

Once the king sponsored a great feast and invited from far and near all the men wanting to get married. They were all placed in a row according to their rank and standing. First came the kings, then the grand dukes, then the princes, the earls, the barons, and the aristocracy. Then the king's daughter was led through the ranks, but she objected to something about each one. One was too fat: "The wine barrel," she said. Another was too tall: "Thin and tall, no good at all." The third was too short: "Short and thick is never quick." The fourth was too pale: "As pale as death." The fifth too red: "A prize rooster." The sixth was not straight enough: "Green wood, dried behind the stove."
And thus she had some objection to each one, but she ridiculed especially one good king who stood at the very top of the row, and whose chin had grown a little crooked. "Look!" she cried out, laughing, "He has a chin like a thrush's beak." And from that time he was called Thrushbeard.
Now the old king, seeing that his daughter did nothing but ridicule the people, making fun of all the suitors who were gathered there, became very angry, and he swore that she should have for her husband the very first beggar to come to his door.
A few days later a minstrel came and sang beneath the window, trying to earn a small handout.
When the king heard him he said, "Let him come up."
So the minstrel, in his dirty, ragged clothes, came in and sang before the king and his daughter, and when he was finished he asked for a small gift.
The king said, "I liked your song so much that I will give you my daughter for a wife."
The king's daughter took fright, but the king said, "I have taken an oath to give you to the very first beggar, and I will keep it."
Her protests did not help. The priest was called in, and she had to marry the minstrel at once. After that had happened the king said, "It is not proper for you, a beggar's wife, to stay in my palace any longer. All you can do now is to go away with your husband."
The beggar led her out by the hand, and she had to leave with him, walking on foot.
They came to a large forest, and she asked, "Who owns this beautiful forest?"
"It belongs to King Thrushbeard. If you had taken him, it would be yours."

Afterwards they crossed a meadow, and she asked again, "Who owns this beautiful green meadow?"
"It belongs to king Thrushbeard. If you had taken him, it would be yours."

Then they walked through a large town, and she asked again, "Who owns this beautiful large town?"
"It belongs to king Thrushbeard. If you had taken him, it would be yours."

"I do not like you to always be wishing for another husband," said the minstrel. "Am I not good enough for you?"
At last they came to a very little hut, and she said, "Oh goodness. What a small house. Who owns this miserable tiny hut?"
The minstrel answered, "This is my house and yours, where we shall live together."
She had to stoop in order to get in the low door.
"Where are the servants?" said the king's daughter.
"What servants?" answered the beggar. "You must do for yourself what you want to have done. Now make a fire at once, put some water on to boil, so you can cook me something to eat. I am very tired."
But the king's daughter knew nothing about lighting fires or cooking, and the beggar had to lend a hand himself to get anything done at all. When they had finished their scanty meal they went to bed. But he made her get up very early the next morning in order to do the housework.
For a few days they lived in this way, as well as they could, but they finally came to the end of their provisions.
Then the man said, "Wife, we cannot go on any longer eating and drinking here and earning nothing. You must weave baskets." He went out, cut some willows, and brought them home. Then she began to weave baskets, but the hard willows cut into her delicate hands.
"I see that this will not do," said the man. "You had better spin. Perhaps you can do that better." She sat down and tried to spin, but the hard thread soon cut into her soft fingers until they bled.
"See," said the man. "You are not good for any sort of work. I made a bad bargain with you. Now I will try to start a business with pots and earthenware. You must sit in the marketplace and sell them."
"Oh!" she thought. "If people from my father's kingdom come to the market and see me sitting there selling things, how they will ridicule me!"
But her protests did not help. She had to do what her husband demanded, unless she wanted to die of hunger.
At first it went well. People bought  the woman's wares because she was beautiful, and they paid her whatever she asked. Many even gave her the money and let her keep the pots. So they lived on what she earned as long as it lasted. Then the husband bought a lot of new pottery. She sat down with this at the corner of the marketplace and set it around her for sale. But suddenly there came a drunken hussar galloping along, and he rode right into the pots, breaking them into a thousand pieces. She began to cry, and was so afraid that she did not know what to do.
"Oh! What will happen to me?" she cried. "What will my husband say about this?" She ran home and told him of the misfortune.
"Who would sit at the corner of the marketplace with earthenware?" said the man. "Now stop crying. I see very well that you are not fit for any ordinary work. Now I was at our king's palace and asked if they couldn't use a kitchen maid. They promised me to take you. In return you will get free food."
The king's daughter now became a kitchen maid, and had to be available to the cook, and to do the dirtiest work. In each of her pockets she fastened a little jar, in which she took home her share of the leftovers. And this is what they lived on.
It happened that the wedding of the king's eldest son was to be celebrated, so the poor woman went up and stood near the door of the hall to look on. When all the lights were lit, and people, each more beautiful than the other, entered, and all was full of pomp and splendor, she thought about her plight with a sad heart, and cursed the pride and haughtiness which had humbled her and brought her to such great poverty.
The smell of the delicious dishes which were being taken in and out reached her, and now and then the servants threw her a few scraps, which she put in her jar to take home.
Then suddenly the king's son entered, clothed in velvet and silk, with gold chains around his neck. When he saw the beautiful woman standing by the door he took her by the hand and wanted danced with her. But she refused and took fright, for she saw that he was King Thrushbeard, the suitor whom she had rejected with scorn.
Her struggles did not help. He pulled her into the hall. But the string that tied up her pockets broke, and the pots fell to the floor. The soup ran out, and the scraps flew everywhere. When the people saw this, everyone laughed and ridiculed her. She was so ashamed that she would rather have been a thousand fathoms beneath the ground. She jumped out the door and wanted to run away, but a man overtook her on the stairs and brought her back. And when she looked at him, it was King Thrushbeard again.
He said to her kindly, "Don't be afraid. I and the minstrel who has been living with you in that miserable hut are one and the same. For the love of you I disguised myself. And I was also the hussar who broke your pottery to pieces. All this was done to humble your proud spirit and to punish you for the arrogance with which you ridiculed me."
Then she cried bitterly and said, "I was terribly wrong, and am not worthy to be your wife."
But he said, "Be comforted. The evil days are past. Now we will celebrate our wedding."
Then the maids-in-waiting came and dressed her in the most splendid clothing, and her father and his whole court came and wished her happiness in her marriage with King Thrushbeard, and their true happiness began only now.
I wish that you and I had been there as well.

Little Snow-White

A year later the king took himself another wife. She was a beautiful  woman, but she was proud and arrogant, and she could not stand it if  anyone might surpass her in beauty. She had a magic mirror. Every morning  she stood before it, looked at herself, and said:
To this the mirror answered:
Then she was satisfied, for she knew that the mirror spoke the truth.
Snow-White grew up and became ever more beautiful. When she was seven  years old she was as beautiful as the light of day, even more beautiful  than the queen herself.
One day when the queen asked her mirror:
It answered:
The queen took fright and turned yellow and green with envy. From that  hour on whenever she looked at Snow-White her heart turned over inside her  body, so great was her hatred for the girl. The envy and pride grew ever  greater, like a weed in her heart, until she had no peace day and night.
Then she summoned a huntsman and said to him, "Take Snow-White out into  the woods. I never want to see her again. Kill her, and as proof that she  is dead bring her lungs and her liver back to me."
The huntsman obeyed and took Snow-White into the woods. He took out his  hunting knife and was about to stab it into her innocent heart when she  began to cry, saying, "Oh, dear huntsman, let me live. I will run into the  wild woods and never come back."
Because she was so beautiful the huntsman took pity on her, and he said,  "Run away, you poor child."
He thought, "The wild animals will soon devour you anyway,"  but still it  was as if a stone had fallen from his heart, for he would not have to kill  her.
Just then a young boar came running by. He killed it, cut out its lungs  and liver, and took them back to the queen as proof of Snow-White's death.  The cook had to boil them with salt, and the wicked woman ate them,  supposing that she had eaten Snow-White's lungs and liver.
The poor child was now all alone in the great forest, and she was so  afraid that she just looked at all the leaves on the trees and did not  know what to do. Then she began to run. She ran over sharp stones and  through thorns, and wild animals jumped at her, but they did her no harm.  She ran as far as her feet could carry her, and just as evening was about  to fall she saw a little house and went inside in order to rest.
Inside the house everything was small, but so neat and clean that no one  could say otherwise. There was a little table with a white tablecloth and  seven little plates, and each plate had a spoon, and there were seven  knives and forks and seven mugs as well. Against the wall there were seven  little beds, all standing in a row and covered with snow-white sheets.
Because she was so hungry and thirsty Snow-White ate a few vegetables and  a little bread from each little plate, and from each mug she drank a drop  of wine. Afterward, because she was so tired, she lay down on a bed, but  none of them felt right -- one was too long, the other too short -- until  finally the seventh one was just right. She remained lying in it,  entrusted herself to God, and fell asleep.
After dark the masters of  the house returned home. They were the seven  dwarfs who picked and dug for ore in the mountains. They lit their seven  candles, and as soon as it was light in their house they saw that someone  had been there, for not everything was in the same order as they had left  it.
The first one said, "Who has been sitting in my chair?"
The second one, "Who has been eating from my plate?"
The third one, "Who has been eating my bread?"
The fourth one, "Who has been eating my vegetables?"
The fifth one, "Who has been sticking with my fork?"
The sixth one, "Who has been cutting with my knife?"
The seventh one, "Who has been drinking from my mug?"
Then the first one saw a that there was a little imprint in his bed, and  said, "Who stepped on my bed?"
The others came running up and shouted, "Someone has been lying in mine as  well."
But the seventh one, looking at his bed, found Snow-White lying there  asleep. The seven dwarfs all came running up, and they cried out with  amazement. They fetched their seven candles and shone the light on  Snow-White. "Oh good heaven! Oh good heaven!" they cried. "This child is  so beautiful!"
They were so happy, that they did not wake her up, but let her continue to  sleep there in the bed. The seventh dwarf had to sleep with his  companions, one hour with each one, and then the night was done.
The next morning Snow-White woke up, and when she saw the seven dwarfs she  was frightened. But they were friendly and asked, "What is your name?"
"My name is Snow-White," she answered.
"How did you find your way to our house?" the dwarfs asked further.
Then she told them that her stepmother had tried to kill her, that the  huntsman had spared her life, and that she had run the entire day, finally  coming to their house.
The dwarfs said, "If you will keep house for us, and cook, make beds,  wash, sew, and knit, and keep everything clean and orderly, then you can  stay with us, and you shall have everything that you want."
"Yes," said Snow-White, "with all my heart."
So she kept house for them. Every morning they went into the mountains  looking for ore and gold, and in the evening when they came back home  their meal had to be ready. During the day the girl was alone.
The good dwarfs warned her, saying, "Be careful about your stepmother. She  will soon know that you are here. Do not let anyone in."
Now the queen, believing that she had eaten Snow-White's lungs and liver,  could only think that she was again the first and the most beautiful woman  of all. She stepped before her mirror and said:
It answered:
This startled the queen, for she knew that the mirror did not lie, and she  realized that the huntsman had deceived her, and that Snow-White was still  alive. Then she thought, and thought again, how she could kill Snow-White,  for as long as long as she was not the most beautiful woman in the entire  land her envy would give her no rest.
At last she thought of something. Coloring her face, she disguised herself  as an old peddler woman, so that no one would recognize her. In this  disguise she went to the house of the seven dwarfs. Knocking on the door  she called out, "Beautiful wares for sale, for sale!"
Snow-White peered out the window and said, "Good day, dear woman, what do  you have for sale?"
"Good wares, beautiful wares," she answered. "Bodice laces in all colors."  And she took out one that was braided from colorful silk. "Would you like  this one?"
"I can let that honest woman in," thought Snow-White, then unbolted the  door and bought the pretty bodice lace.
"Child," said the old woman, "how you look! Come, let me lace you up  properly."
The unsuspecting Snow-White stood before her and let her do up the new  lace, but the old woman pulled so quickly and so hard that Snow-White  could not breathe.
"You used to be the most beautiful one," said the old woman, and hurried  away.
Not long afterward, in the evening time, the seven dwarfs came home. How  terrified they were when they saw their dear Snow-White lying on the  ground, not moving at all, as though she were dead. They lifted her up,  and, seeing that she was too tightly laced, they cut the lace in two. Then  she began to breathe a little, and little by little she came back to life.
When the dwarfs heard what had happened they said, "The old peddler woman  was no one else but the godless queen. Take care and let no one in when we  are not with you."
When the wicked woman returned home she went to her mirror and asked:
The mirror answered once again:
When she heard that, all her blood ran to her heart because she knew that  Snow-White had come back to life.
"This time," she said, "I shall think of something that will destroy you."
Then with the art of witchcraft, which she understood,  she made a  poisoned comb. Then she disguised herself, taking the form of a different  old woman. Thus she went across the seven mountains to the seven dwarfs,  knocked on the door, and called out, "Good wares for sale, for sale!"
Snow-White looked out and said, "Go on your way. I am not allowed to let  anyone in."
"You surely may take a look," said the old woman, pulling out the poisoned  comb and holding it up.  The child liked it so much that she let herself be deceived, and she  opened the door.
After they had agreed on the purchase, the old woman said, "Now let me  comb your hair properly."
She had barely stuck the comb into Snow-White's hair when the poison took  effect, and the girl fell down unconscious.
"You specimen of beauty," said the wicked woman, "now you are finished."  And she walked away.
Fortunately it was almost evening, and the seven dwarfs came home. When  they saw Snow-White lying on the ground as if she were dead, they  immediately suspected her stepmother. They examined her and found the  poisoned comb. They had scarcely pulled it out when Snow-White came to  herself again and told them what had happened. Once again they warned her  to be on guard and not to open the door for anyone.
Back at home the queen stepped before her mirror and said:
The mirror answered:
When the queen heard the mirror saying this, she shook and trembled with  anger, "Snow-White shall die," she shouted, "if it costs me my life!"
Then she went into her most secret room -- no one else was allowed inside  -- and she made a poisoned, poisoned apple. From the outside it was  beautiful, white with red cheeks, and anyone who saw it would want it. But  anyone who might eat a little piece of it would died. Then, coloring her  face, she disguised herself as a peasant woman, and thus went across the  seven mountains to the seven dwarfs. She knocked on the door.
Snow-White stuck her head out the window and said, "I am not allowed to  let anyone in. The dwarfs have forbidden me to do so."
"That is all right with me," answered the peasant woman. "I'll easily get  rid of my apples. Here, I'll give you one of them."
"No," said Snow-White, "I cannot accept anything."
"Are you afraid of poison?" asked the old woman. "Look, I'll cut the apple  in two. You eat the red half, and I shall eat the white half."
Now the apple had been so artfully made that only the red half was  poisoned. Snow-White longed for the beautiful apple, and when she saw that  the peasant woman was eating part of it she could no longer resist, and  she stuck her hand out and took the poisoned half. She barely had a bite  in her mouth when she fell to the ground dead.
The queen looked at her with a gruesome stare, laughed loudly, and said,  "White as snow, red as blood, black as ebony wood! This time the dwarfs  cannot awaken you."
Back at home she asked her mirror:
It finally answered:
Then her envious heart was at rest, as well as an envious heart can be at  rest.
When the dwarfs came home that evening they found Snow-White lying on the  ground. She was not breathing at all. She was dead. They lifted her up and  looked for something poisonous. They undid her laces. They combed her  hair. They washed her with water and wine. But nothing helped. The dear  child was dead, and she remained dead. They laid her on a bier, and all  seven sat next to her and mourned for her and cried for three days. They  were going to bury her, but she still looked as fresh as a living person,  and still had her beautiful red cheeks.
They said, "We cannot bury her in the black earth," and they had a  transparent glass coffin made, so she could be seen from all sides. They  laid her inside, and with golden letters wrote on it her name, and that  she was a princess. Then they put the coffin outside on a mountain, and  one of them always stayed with it and watched over her. The animals too  came and mourned for Snow-white, first an owl, then a raven, and finally a  dove.
Snow-White lay there in the coffin a long, long time, and she did not  decay, but looked like she was asleep, for she was still as white as snow  and as red as blood, and as black-haired as ebony wood.
Now it came to pass that a prince entered these woods and happened onto  the dwarfs' house, where he sought shelter for the night. He saw the  coffin on the mountain with beautiful Snow-White in it, and he read what  was written on it with golden letters.
Then he said to the dwarfs, "Let me have the coffin. I will give you  anything you want for it."
But the dwarfs answered, "We will not sell it for all the gold in the  world."
Then he said, "Then give it to me, for I cannot live without being able to  see Snow-White. I will honor her and respect her as my most cherished  one."
As he thus spoke, the good dwarfs felt pity for him and gave him the  coffin. The prince had his servants carry it away on their shoulders. But  then it happened that one of them stumbled on some brush, and this  dislodged from Snow-White's throat the piece of poisoned apple that she  had bitten off. Not long afterward she opened her eyes, lifted the lid  from her coffin, sat up, and was alive again.
"Good heavens, where am I?" she cried out.
The prince said joyfully, "You are with me." He told her what had  happened, and then said, "I love you more than anything else in the world.  Come with me to my father's castle. You shall become my wife."  Snow-White loved him, and she went with him. Their wedding was planned  with great splendor and majesty.
Snow-White's godless stepmother was also invited to the feast. After  putting on her beautiful clothes she stepped before her mirror and said:
The wicked woman uttered a curse, and she became so frightened, so  frightened, that she did not know what to do. At first she did not want to  go to the wedding, but she found no peace. She had to go and see the young  queen. When she arrived she recognized Snow-White, and terrorized, she  could only stand there without moving.
Then they put a pair of iron shoes into burning coals. They were brought  forth with tongs and placed before her. She was forced to step into the  red-hot shoes and dance until she fell down dead.

Hans Dumb

There was a king who lived happily with his daughter, his only child. Quite suddenly the princess had a baby, but no one knew who the father was. For some time the king was beside himself. Finally he ordered the princess to take the child to the church. A lemon would be placed in his hand, and whoever he should give it to would be the child's father and the princess's husband. This happened, but only fine people were admitted into the church. However, in the town there was a small, crooked, hunchbacked lad who was not very smart and who was therefore known as Hans Dumb. He mingled with the others and slipped into the church without being seen. When the child reached out with the lemon, it was to Hans Dumb!
The princess was horrified, and the king was so taken aback that he had her, the child, and Hans Dumb placed into a cask and set adrift at sea. The cask soon drifted away, and when they were alone at sea the princess cried out bitterly, "You horrid, hunchbacked, impudent rogue, you are the cause of my suffering. Why did you force your way into the church? You have nothing to do with the child."
"Oh yes," said Hans Dumb. "I have a lot to do with it, because one day I wished that you would have a child, and my wishes come true."
"If that is so, then wish us something to eat."
"I can do that too," said Hans Dumb, and he wished for a plate filled with potatoes. The princess would have liked something better, but because she was so hungry she helped him eat the potatoes.
After they had eaten their fill, Hans Dumb said, "Now I shall wish us a fine ship!" He had scarcely said this and they were sitting in a splendid ship, with an excess of everything that they might want.
The helmsman steered straight for land, and as they were going ashore Hans Dumb said, "Here there shall be a castle!" And there was a splendid castle there, and servants dressed in gold came and led the princess and the child inside, and when they were in the middle of the great hall, Hans Dumb said, "Now I wish to become a young and intelligent prince!" Then his hump disappeared, and he was handsome and straight and friendly. He found favor with the princess, and he became her husband, and they lived happily for a long time.
One day the old king got lost while out riding and came to their castle. He was amazed, because he had never seen it before, and he went inside. The princess recognized her father at once, but he did not know who she was, for he thought that she had long since drowned in the ocean. She received him with splendor, but when he wanted to go back home, she secretly placed a golden goblet into his pocket.
After he had ridden away she sent some knights after him to stop him and see if he hadn't stolen the golden goblet. They found it in his pocket and brought him back. He swore to the princess that he had not stolen it and did not know how it came to be in his pocket.
She said, "You see, one should always be cautious about accusing another person." With this she revealed herself as his daughter. The king was overjoyed, and they lived happily together, and after his death Hans Dumb became king.

Rumpelstiltskin

The king said to the miller, "That is an art that I really like. If your  daughter is as skillful as you say, then bring her to my castle tomorrow,  and I will put her to the test."
When the girl was brought to him he led her into a room that was entirely  filled with straw. Giving her a spinning wheel and a reel, he said, "Get  to work now. Spin all night, and if by morning you have not spun this  straw into gold, then you will have to die." Then he himself locked the  room, and she was there all alone.
The poor miller's daughter sat there, and for her life she did not know  what to do. She had no idea how to spin straw into gold. She became more  and more afraid, and finally began to cry.
Then suddenly the door opened. A little man stepped inside and said, "Good  evening, Mistress Miller, why are you crying so?"
"Oh," answered the girl, "I am supposed to spin straw into gold, and I do  not know how to do it."
The little man said, "What will you give me if I spin it for you?"
"My necklace," said the girl.
The little man took the necklace, sat down before the spinning wheel, and  whir, whir, whir, three times pulled, and the spool was full. Then he put  another one on, and whir, whir, whir, three times pulled, and the second  one was full as well. So it went until morning, and then all the straw was  spun, and all the spools were filled with gold.
At sunrise the king came, and when he saw the gold he was surprised and  happy, but his heart became even more greedy for gold. He had the miller's  daughter taken to another room filled with straw. It was even larger, and  he ordered her to spin it in one night, if she valued her life.
The girl did not know what to do, and she cried. Once again the door  opened, and the little man appeared. He said, "What will you give me if I  spin the straw into gold for you?"
"The ring from my finger," answered the girl.
The little man took the ring, and began once again to whir with the  spinning wheel. By morning he had spun all the straw into glistening gold.  The king was happy beyond measure when he saw it, but he still did not  have his fill of gold. He had the miller's daughter taken to a still  larger room filled with straw, and said, "Tonight you must spin this too.  If you succeed you shall become my wife." He thought, "Even if she is only  a miller's daughter, I will not find a richer wife in all the world."
When the girl was alone the little man returned for a third time. He said,  "What will you give me if I spin the straw this time?"
"I have nothing more that I could give you," answered the girl.
"Then promise me, after you are queen, your first child."
"Who knows what will happen," thought the miller's daughter, and not  knowing what else to do, she promised the little man what he demanded. In  return the little man once again spun the straw into gold.
When in the morning the king came and found everything just as he desired,  he married her, and the beautiful miller's daughter became queen.
A year later she brought a beautiful child to the world. She thought no  more about the little man, but suddenly he appeared in her room and said,  "Now give me that which you promised."
The queen took fright and offered the little man all the wealth of the  kingdom if he would let her keep the child, but the little man said, "No.  Something living is dearer to me than all the treasures of the world."
Then the queen began lamenting and crying so much that the little man took  pity on her and said, "I will give you three days' time. If by then you  know my name, then you shall keep your child."
The queen spent the entire night thinking of all the names she had ever  heard. Then she sent a messenger into the country to inquire far and wide  what other names there were. When the little man returned the next day she  began with Kaspar, Melchior, Balzer, and said in order all the names she  knew. After each one the little man said, "That is not my name."
The second day she sent inquiries into the neighborhood as to what names  people had. She recited the most unusual and most curious names to the  little man: "Is your name perhaps Beastrib? Or Muttoncalf? Or Legstring?"
But he always answered, "That is not my name."
On the third day the messenger returned and said, "I have not been able to  find a single new name, but when I was approaching a high mountain in the  corner of the woods, there where the fox and the hare say good-night, I  saw a little house. A fire was burning in front of the house, and an  altogether comical little man was jumping around the fire, hopping on one  leg and calling out:

You can imagine how happy the queen was when she heard that name. Soon  afterward the little man came in and asked, "Now, Madame Queen, what is my  name?"
She first asked, "Is your name Kunz?"
"No."
"Is your name Heinz?"
"No."
"Is your name perhaps Rumpelstiltskin?"
"The devil told you that! The devil told you that!" shouted the little  man, and with anger he stomped his right foot so hard into the ground that  he fell in up to his waist. Then with both hands he took hold of his left  foot and ripped himself up the middle in two.


Sweetheart Roland

"Be still, my child," said the old woman, "and you shall have it. Your stepsister has long deserved to die, and tonight when she is asleep I will come and chop off her head. Just be sure to lie down at the far side of the bed, and push her close to the front."
It would have been all over with the poor girl, but just then she was standing in a corner, and she overheard everything. She was not allowed to go outside all day long, and at bedtime her wicked stepsister had her get into bed first, so she would be lying next to the wall. However, after the witch's daughter fell asleep, the stepdaughter gently pushed her to the front side of the bed, and she took her place back against the wall.
In the night the old woman crept into the bedroom holding an ax in her right hand while feeling with her left hand for anyone lying at the front of the bed. Then she grasped the axe with both hands and chopped off her own child's head.
After the witch had gone away, the girl got up and went to her sweetheart, whose name was Roland, and knocked at his door. When he came out, she said to him, "Listen, dearest Roland, we must flee at once. My stepmother tried to kill me, but she killed her own child instead. When daylight comes, and she sees what she has done, we'll be lost."
"You had better take her magic wand," said Roland, "or we will not be able to escape if she comes after us."
The girl got the magic wand, then she took the dead girl's head and dropped three drops of blood onto the floor, one in front of the bed, one in the kitchen, and one on the steps. Then she hurried away with her sweetheart.
The next morning when the old witch got up, she called her daughter, wanting to give her the apron. But the daughter did not come. So she shouted, "Where are you?"
"Here on the steps. I'm sweeping," answered the first drop of blood.
The old woman went out, but seeing no one on the steps, she shouted again, "Where are you?"
"Here in the kitchen. I'm warming myself," shouted the second drop of blood.
She went into the kitchen, but found no one. So she shouted again, "Where are you?"
"Here in the bed. I'm sleeping," shouted the third drop of blood.
She went into the bedroom and approached the bed. What did she see there? Her own child swimming in blood and whose head she herself had cut off.
The witch flew into a rage, jumped to the window, and as she could see far into the world, she saw her stepdaughter hurrying away with her sweetheart Roland. "That won't help you, she shouted. "Even if you've already gone a long way, you won't escape from me."
She put on her many-league boots, in which she covered an hour's walk with every step, and it was not long before she overtook them. However, when the girl saw the old woman striding toward them, she used the magic wand to transform her sweetheart Roland into a lake, and herself into a duck swimming in the middle of the lake.
The witch stood on the shore and threw in pieces of bread, trying with great effort to lure the duck to her. But the duck did not give in, and the old woman had to return home that night without success. Afterward the girl and her sweetheart Roland returned to their natural shapes, and they walked on through the whole night until daybreak. Then the girl transformed herself into a beautiful flower in the middle of a briar hedge, and her sweetheart Roland into a fiddler.
It was not long before the witch came striding up toward them. She said to the musician, "Dear musician, may I pick that beautiful flower for myself?"
"Oh, yes," he replied. "And I will play for you while you're doing it."
She crawled hastily into the hedge and was just about to pick the flower, knowing perfectly well who it was, when he began to play. She was forced to dance, whether she wanted to or not, for it was magic dance music. The faster he played, the more violently she was forced to jump. The thorns tore the clothes off her body, pricking her until she bled, and as he did not stop, she had to dance until she fell down dead.
They were now free, so Roland said, "Now I will go to my father and arrange for our wedding."
"I'll stay here and wait for you," said the girl. "And I'll transform myself into a red boundary stone, so that no one will recognize me."
So Roland set forth, and the girl, in the shape of a red boundary stone, stood there and waited for her sweetheart. But when Roland arrived home, he was snared by another woman, who caused him to forget the girl. The poor girl waited there a long time, but finally, when he failed to return, she grew sad and transformed herself into a flower, thinking, "Someone will surely come this way and trample me down."
However, it happened that a shepherd who was herding his sheep in the field saw the flower. As it was so beautiful, he picked it, took it home with him, and put it away in his chest. From that time forth, strange things happened in the shepherd's house. When he arose in the morning all the work was already done. The room was swept, the table and benches cleaned, the fire on the hearth was lighted, and the water was fetched, and at noon, when he came home, the table was already set, and a good dinner served. He didn't know how this happened, for he never saw anyone in his house, and no one could have hidden himself in it.
He was, of course, pleased with this good service, but with time he became so afraid that he went to a wise woman and asked for her advice.
The wise woman said, "There is magic behind it. Be on the watch very early some morning, and if anything is moving in the room, if you see anything, no matter what it is, throw a white cloth over it, and then the magic will be stopped."
The shepherd did what she told him to do, and the next morning just at dawn, he saw the chest open and the flower come out. He quickly jumped towards it and threw a white cloth over it. Instantly the transformation came to an end, and a beautiful girl stood before him, who admitted to him that she had been the flower, and that she had been doing his housekeeping. She told him her story. He liked her and asked her to marry him, but she answered, "No," for she wanted to remain faithful to her sweetheart Roland, even though he had abandoned her. Nevertheless, she promised not to go away, and to continue keeping house for the shepherd.
The time drew near when Roland was to be marred. According to an old custom in that country, it was announced that all the girls were to attend the wedding and sing in honor of the bridal pair. When the faithful girl heard this, she grew so sad that she thought her heart would break, and she did not want to go. But the other girls came and took her. When it was her turn to sing, she declined, until at last she was the only one left, and then she could not refuse. But when she began her song, and it reached Roland's ears, he jumped up and shouted, "I know that voice. That is the true bride. I do not want anyone else." Everything he had forgotten, and which had vanished from his mind, had suddenly come home again to his heart.
Thus the faithful girl was married to her sweetheart Roland. Her grief came to an end, and her joy began.

The Fox and the Cat

The fox, filled with arrogance, examined the cat from head to feet, and  for a long time did not know whether he should give an answer. At last he  said, "Oh, you poor beard-licker, you speckled fool, you hungry mouse  hunter, what are you thinking? Have you the nerve to ask how I am doing?  What do you know? How many tricks do you understand?"
"I understand but one," answered the cat, modestly.
"What kind of a trick is it?" asked the fox.
"When the dogs are chasing me, I can jump into a tree and save myself."
"Is that all?" said the fox. "I am master of a hundred tricks, and in  addition to that I have a sackful of cunning. I feel sorry for you. Come  with me, and I will teach you how one escapes from the dogs."
Just then a hunter came by with four dogs. The cat jumped nimbly up a  tree, and sat down at its top, where the branches and foliage completely  hid her.
"Untie your sack, Mr. Fox, untie your sack," the cat shouted to him,  but the dogs had already seized him, and were holding him fast.
"Oh, Mr. Fox," shouted the cat. "You and your hundred tricks are left  in the lurch. If you been able to climb like I can, you would not have  lost your life."

Old Hildebrand

One day he said to her, "Listen, dear woman, I've thought it through, and I know how the two of us can spend an entire day together. On Wednesday tell your husband that you are sick and lie down in bed moaning and groaning. Carry on like that until Sunday, when in my sermon I will preach that if anyone has a sick child at home, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick father, a sick mother, a sick sister, brother, or anyone else, then that person should make a pilgrimage to Mount Cuckoo in Italy. There, for a kreuzer, one can get a peck of laurel leaves, and this person's sick child, sick husband, sick wife, sick father, sick mother, sick sister, brother, or anyone else, will be healed on the spot."
"I'll do it," said the peasant's wife. So on Wednesday she went to bed, moaning and groaning. Her husband did everything for her that he could think of, but nothing helped. Sunday arrived, and the peasant's wife said, "I'm so miserable that I must be near death, but before I die, I would like to hear the sermon that the priest is going to give today."
The peasant answered, "Oh, my child, you can't go out. If you get up it might make you worse. Look, I'll go to church and pay close attention and tell you everything that the priest says."
"Good," said the peasant's wife. "Go and pay close attention, and then tell me everything that you have heard."
So the peasant went to church, and the priest began to preach, saying that if anyone had a sick child at home, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick father, a sick mother, a sick sister, brother, or anyone else, then that person should make a pilgrimage to Mount Cuckoo in Italy, where a peck of laurel leaves costs one kreuzer, and this person's sick child, sick husband, sick wife, sick father, sick mother, sick sister, brother, or anyone else, will be healed on the spot, and that anyone who might want to undertake this trip should come to him after the mass, and he would give him a sack for the laurel leaves and a kreuzer.
No one was happier than the peasant, and immediately following the mass he went to the priest and asked for the laurel sack and the kreuzer. Then he went home, and even before going inside called out, "Hurrah! My dear wife, you are just as good as cured. The priest preached today that whoever has a sick child at home, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick father, a sick mother, a sick sister, brother, or anyone else, then that person should make a pilgrimage to Mount Cuckoo in Italy, where a peck of laurel leaves costs one kreuzer, and this person's sick child, sick husband, sick wife, sick father, sick mother, sick sister, brother, or anyone else, will be healed on the spot, and I got the laurel sack and the kreuzer from the priest, and am going to take off immediately, so you can get better as soon as possible." And with that he set forth.
He had scarcely left before his wife got out of bed, and the priest arrived. But let's leave them for awhile and see what happened to the peasant. He was hurrying along in order to arrive at Mount Cuckoo as soon as possible, when he met a kinsman. Now this kinsman was an egg man, who was just returning from market, where he had sold his eggs.
"Bless you!" said the kinsman. "Where are you off to in such a hurry?"
"In all eternity!" said the peasant. "My wife has become sick, and today in the priest's sermon I heard that if anyone has a sick child at home, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick father, a sick mother, a sick sister, brother, or anyone else, then that person should make a pilgrimage to Mount Cuckoo in Italy, where a peck of laurel leaves costs one kreuzer, and this person's sick child, sick husband, sick wife, sick father, sick mother, sick sister, brother, or anyone else, will be healed on the spot, and I got the laurel sack and the kreuzer from the priest, and now I am on my way."
"Listen, kinsman," said the peasant's kinsman. "Don't be so simple as to believe that. Do you know what? The priest wants to spend an entire day alone with your wife. He has given you this task just to get you out from under his feet."
"My!" the peasant said. "How I would like to know if that is true!"
"Do you know what?" said his kinsman, "Just climb into my egg basket, and I will carry you home, and you can see for yourself."
And that is just what happened. The peasant got into the egg basket, and his kinsman carried him home. When they arrived there, the good times had already started. The peasant's wife had slaughtered almost everything in the farmyard and had made pancakes, and the priest was there with his fiddle. The kinsman knocked at the door, and the peasant's wife asked who was there.
"It's me, kinswoman," said the kinsman. "Can you give me shelter for the night? I did not sell my eggs at the market, so now I have to carry them back home, but they are too heavy, and I can't make it. It is already dark."
"Well," said the peasant's wife, "you have come at a very inconvenient time, but it can't be helped. Just sit down over there on the bench by the stove." So the kinsman took a seat on the bench and set his pack basket down beside him. And the priest and the peasant's wife proceeded to carry on.
After a while the priest said, "Listen, my dear woman, you are such a good singer. Sing something for me."
"No," said the peasant's wife, "I can't sing anymore. I could sing well when I was younger, but that's all behind me now."
"Oh," said the priest, "do sing just a little."
So the peasant's wife started to sing:
And the priest sang back:
Then the kinsman chimed in (oh, I have to tell you that the peasant's name was Hildebrand), and sang out:
The peasant, from inside the basket, sang forth:
With that he jumped from the basket, and with blows he drove the priest out of the house.

Faithful Johannes

Faithful Johannes was his favorite servant, and was so called, because he had been so loyal to him for his whole life long. When he approached the bed the king said to him, "Most faithful Johannes, I feel that my end is near. My only concern is for my son. He is still young and may not always have the best judgment. I will not be able to close my eyes in peace if you do not promise to teach him everything that he ought to know, and to be his foster father."
Faithful Johannes answered, "I will not forsake him, and will serve him faithfully, even if it costs me my life."
At this, the old king said, "Then I will die in comfort and peace," adding, "After my death, show him the entire castle -- all the chambers, halls, and vaults, and all the treasures which lie therein. But do not show him the last chamber in the long gallery, which contains the portrait of the Princess of the Golden Roof. If he sees that picture, he will fall violently in love with her, will fall down unconscious, and will put himself at great risk for her sake. You must protect him from that."
After faithful Johannes had once more given his promise to the old king about this, the latter said no more, but laid his head on his pillow and died.
After the old king had been carried to his grave, faithful Johannes told the young king all that he had promised his father on his deathbed, and said, "I will surely keep my promise, and will be loyal to you as I have been loyal to him, even if it should cost me my life."
When the mourning was over, faithful Johannes said to the young king, "It is now time for you to see your inheritance. I will show you your father's castle." Then he took him everywhere, up and down, and let him see all the riches and the magnificent chambers. But there was one chamber which he did not open, the one that contained the dangerous portrait. Now the portrait was so placed that when the door was opened one looked straight at it. It was so masterfully painted that it seemed to live and breathe and to be the most charming beautiful thing in the whole world.
The young king noticed that faithful Johannes always walked past this one door, and said, "Why do you never open this one for me?"
He replied, "There is something in there that would frighten you."
The king answered "I have seen the entire castle, and I want to know what is in this room as well." And he was about to break open the door by force.
Faithful Johannes held him back, saying, "I promised your father before his death that you should not see inside this chamber. It could bring great misfortune on you and on me."
"Oh, no!" replied the young king. "If I do not go in, it will be my certain downfall. I shall have no rest day or night until I have seen inside with my own eyes. I shall not leave here until you have unlocked the door."
Faithful Johannes saw that there was no other way. With a heavy heart and many sighs, he took the key from the large ring. After opening the door, he went in first, thinking that he could block king's view of the portrait, that the king would not see it in front of him. But what good did it do? The king stood on tiptoes and saw the portrait over faithful Johannes's shoulder. After seeing the girl's portrait, which was so magnificent and glistened with gold and precious stones, he fell unconscious to the ground.
Faithful Johannes picked him up, carried him to his bed, and sorrowfully thought, "Misfortune has befallen us, dear Lord. How will it end?" Then he strengthened the king with wine, until he regained consciousness.
The king's first words were, "Oh, whose portrait is that beautiful picture?"
"That is the Princess of the Golden Roof," answered faithful Johannes.
The king continued, "My love for her is so great, that if all the leaves on all the trees were tongues, they would not be able to express it. I will risk my life to win her. You are my most faithful Johannes. You must help me."
The faithful servant thought to himself for a long time how to approach the matter, for it was difficult even to come into view of the king's daughter. Finally he thought of a way, and said to the king, "Everything which she has about her is of gold -- tables, chairs, dishes, cups, bowls, and household implements. Among your treasures are five tons of gold. Have the royal goldsmiths fashion one ton into all manner of vessels and utensils, into all kinds of birds, wild beasts, and strange animals. She will like these things, and we will go there with them and to try our luck."
The king summoned all the goldsmiths, and they had to work night and day until at last the most splendid things were prepared. When everything had been loaded on board a ship, faithful Johannes disguised himself as a merchant, and the king had to do the same thing in order to make himself quite unrecognizable. Then they sailed across the sea, and sailed on until they came to the city where the Princess of the Golden Roof lived.
Faithful Johannes had the king stay behind on the ship and wait for him. "Perhaps I shall bring the princess with me," he said. "Therefore see that everything is in order. Have the golden vessels set out and the whole ship decorated." Then he put all kinds of golden things into his apron, went on shore and walked straight to the royal castle. When he entered the courtyard of the castle, a beautiful girl was standing there by the well with two golden buckets in her hand, drawing water with them. She was just turning around to carry away the sparkling water when she saw the stranger and asked who he was.
He answered, "I am a merchant," opening his apron, and letting her look in.
"Oh, what beautiful golden things," she cried, putting her buckets down and looking at the golden wares one after the other. Then the girl said, "The princess must see these things. She takes such great pleasure in golden things, that she will buy all you have." Taking him by the hand, she led him upstairs, for she was the princess's chambermaid.
When the princess saw the wares, she was quite delighted and said, "They are so beautifully made that I will buy them all from you."
But faithful Johannes said, "I am only the servant of a rich merchant. The things I have here are not to be compared with those my master has in his ship. They are the most beautiful and valuable things that have ever been made in gold." When she wanted to have everything brought up to her, he said, "There is so much that it would take a great many days to do that, and so many rooms would be required to exhibit them, that your house is not big enough."
This made her all the more curious and desirous, so at last she said, "Take me to the ship. I will go there myself and see your master's treasures."
Faithful Johannes happily led her to the ship, and when the king beheld her, he saw that she was even more beautiful than the portrait, and he thought that his heart would surely break. Then she boarded the ship, and the king led her inside. But faithful Johannes remained with the helmsman and ordered the ship to be pushed off, saying, "Set all the sails and fly like a bird in the air."
Inside, the king showed her the golden vessels, every one of them, and also the wild beasts and strange animals. Many hours went by while she was looking at everything, and in her delight she did not notice that the ship was sailing away. After she had looked at the last item, she thanked the merchant and wanted to go home, but when she came to the side of the ship, she saw that it was on the high seas far from land, and speeding onward at full sail.
"Oh!" she cried in alarm "I've been betrayed. I've been kidnapped and have fallen into the power of a merchant. I would rather die!"
Taking her by the hand, the king said, "I am not a merchant. I am a king, and of no lower birth than you are. If I have tricked you into coming with me, it is only because of my great love for you. The first time I saw your portrait, I fell to the ground unconscious."
When the Princess of the Golden Roof was comforted when she heard this. Her heart yielded to him, and she willingly consented to marry him.
Now it so happened that while they were sailing onward on the high sea, faithful Johannes, who was sitting at the front of the ship making music, saw three ravens flying through the air towards them. He stopped playing and listened to what they were saying to each other, for he could understand them.
One cried "Oh, he is carrying home the Princess of the Golden Roof."
"Yes," replied the second, "but he doesn't have her yet."
The third one said, "Yes, he has her. She is sitting beside him in the ship."
Then the first one began again, crying, "What good will that do him? When they reach land a chestnut horse will leap forward to meet him, and the prince will want to mount it, but if he does that, it will leap up into the air with him, and he will never see his bride again."
The second one spoke, "Is there no escape?"
"Oh, yes, if someone else quickly mounts it, takes the gun from its saddlebag, and shoots the horse dead, then young king will be rescued. But who knows that? And if anyone does know it, and tells it to the king, he will be turned to stone from his toes to his knees."
Then the second raven said, "I know more than that. Even if the horse is killed, still the young king will not keep his bride. When they enter the castle together, a ready-made wedding shirt will be lying there on a platter. It will appear to be woven of gold and silver, but it is nothing but sulfur and pitch. If he puts it on, it will burn him to the very marrow and bone."
The third one spoke, "Is there no escape at all?"
"Oh, yes," replied the second raven. "If anyone with gloves on seizes the garment and throws it into the fire and burns it up, the young king will be saved. But what good will that do? If anyone knows it and tells it to the king, half his body will become stone, from his knees to his heart."
Then the third raven said, "I know still more. Even if the wedding shirt is burned up, still the young king will not have his bride. After the wedding, when the dancing begins and the young queen is dancing, she will suddenly turn pale and fall down as if dead. If someone does not lift her up and draw three drops of blood from her right breast and spit them out again, she will die. But if anyone who knows that reveals it, his entire body will turn to stone, from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet."
After the ravens had thus spoken they flew away. Faithful Johannes had understood everything well. From that time forth he became quiet and sad, for if he concealed what he had heard from his master, it would bring misfortune to the king, but if he revealed it to him, then he himself would have to sacrifice his life.
Finally he said to himself, "I will save my master, even if it brings destruction on myself."
When they landed, what the raven foretold did indeed happen, and a magnificent chestnut horse sprang forward.
"Excellent!" said the king. "He shall carry me to my castle."
He was about to mount it when faithful Johannes pushed in front of him, quickly jumped onto the horse, drew the gun from its saddlebag, and shot the horse.
The king's other servants, who were not very fond of faithful Johannes, shouted, "How shameful to kill the beautiful animal that was to have carried the king to his castle."
But the king said, "Hold your peace and leave him alone. He is my most faithful Johannes. Who knows what good may come of this?"
They entered the castle, and in the hall there stood a platter on which lay the wedding shirt that appeared to be made of gold and silver. The young king went towards it and was about to take hold of it, but faithful Johannes pushed him away, seized it with gloves, carried it quickly to the fire, and burned it up.
The other servants began to murmur again, saying, "Look, now he is even burning up the king's wedding shirt."
But the young king said, "Who knows what good he may have done? Leave him alone. He is my most faithful Johannes."
And now the wedding took place. The dance began, with the bride also taking part. Faithful Johannes was watchful and looked into her face. Suddenly she turned pale and fell to the ground as if she were dead. He ran quickly to her, picked her up and carried her into a chamber. He laid her down, then knelt and sucked three drops of blood from her right breast, and spat them out. Immediately she breathed again and regained consciousness. The young king saw what had happened, and not knowing why faithful Johannes had done it, grew angry and shouted, "Throw him into prison."
The next morning faithful Johannes was condemned and led to the gallows. Standing high on the platform and about to be executed, he said, "Everyone who is condemned to die is permitted before his end to say one last thing. May I too have this right?"
"Yes," answered the king. "You are granted this right."
Faithful Johannes said, "I have been unjustly condemned, and have always been loyal to you, and he related how he had heard the conversation of the ravens at sea, and how he had had to do all these things in order to save his master.
Then the king cried, "Oh, my most faithful Johannes, pardon! Pardon! Bring him down."
But as faithful Johannes spoke the last word, he fell down lifeless and turned to stone.
This caused the king and the queen great grief, and the king said, "Oh, I have rewarded him very badly for his great loyalty." He then ordered the stone figure to be taken up and placed in his bedroom next to his bed. Every time that he looked at it he wept, saying, "Oh, if only I could bring you back to life again, my most faithful Johannes."
Some time passed and the queen bore twins, two sons who grew fast and were her delight. Once when the queen was at church and the two children were sitting beside their father and playing, he again looked sadly at the stone statue and said, "Oh, if only I could bring you back to life again, my most faithful Johannes."
Then the stone began to speak and said, "You can bring me back to life again if you will in return give up what is dearest to you."
The king cried, "For you I will give up everything I have in the world."
The stone continued, "If you will cut off the heads of your two children with your own hand, then sprinkle their blood on me, I shall be restored to life."
The king was horrified when he heard that he would have to kill his own dearest children, but he thought of faithful Johannes's great loyalty, and how he had died for him, then drew his sword, and with his own hand cut off the children's heads. And when he had smeared the stone with their blood, it returned to life, and faithful Johannes stood before him, again healthy and well.
He said to the king, "Your loyalty shall not go unrewarded," then taking the children's heads, he put them on again, then rubbed the wounds with their blood, at which they became immediately whole again, and jumped about and went on playing as if nothing had happened.
The king was overjoyed. When he saw the queen coming he hid faithful Johannes and the two children in a large chest. When she entered, he said to her, "Have you been praying in the church?"
"Yes, she answered, "but I have constantly been thinking about faithful Johannes and what misfortune has befallen him because of us."
Then he said, "Dear wife, we can give him his life again, but it will cost us our two little sons. We will have to sacrifice them."
The queen turned pale, and her heart filled with terror, but she said, "We owe it to him for his great loyalty."
The king rejoiced to hear that she agreed with him, then he opened up the chest and brought forth faithful Johannes and the children, saying, "God be praised! Faithful Johannes has been saved, and we have our little sons again as well." He told her how everything had happened. Then they lived happily together until they died.


The Little Peasant

One day he said to her, "Listen, I have a good idea. Our kinsman the  cabinetmaker should make us a calf out of wood and paint it brown so that  it looks like any other calf, and with time it is sure to grow big and be  a cow."
His wife liked this idea, and their kinsman the cabinetmaker skillfully  put together the calf and planed it, then painted it just right. He made  it with its head hanging down as if it were grazing.
When the cows were being driven out the next morning the little peasant  called to the herder and said, "Look, I have a little calf here, but it is  still small and has to be carried."
The herder said, "All right," and taking it in his arms he carried it  to the pasture where he set it in the grass.
The little calf stood there like one that was grazing, and the herder  said, "It will soon be walking by itself. Just look how it is already  grazing."
That evening when he was about to drive the herd home again, he said to  the calf, "If you can stand there and eat your fill, you can also walk on  your four legs. I don't want to carry you home again in my arms."
When the herder drove the cows through the village the little peasant  was standing outside his door waiting for his little calf. It was missing,  and he asked where it was.
The herder answered, "It is still standing out there grazing. It would  not stop and come with us."
The little peasant said, "Oh, I must have my animal back again."
Then together they went back to the pasture, but someone had stolen the  calf, and it was gone.
The herder said, "It must have run away."
The little peasant said, "Don't tell me that," and he took the herder  before the mayor, who condemned him for his carelessness, and required him  to give the little peasant a cow for the lost calf.
The little peasant and his wife now had the cow that they had long  wanted. They were very glad, but they had no feed for it, and could give  it nothing to eat, so it soon had to be slaughtered.
They salted the meat, and the little peasant went to town to sell the  hide, hoping to buy a new calf with the proceeds.
On the way he came to a mill, and there sat a raven with broken wings.  Out of pity he picked it up and wrapped it in the hide.
But then the weather turned very bad with a wind and rain storm. Unable  to continue on his way, he returned to the mill and asked for shelter.
The miller's wife was alone in the house, and she said to the little  peasant, "You can sleep in the straw there," and she gave him a piece of  bread and cheese.
The little peasant ate and then lay down with his hide at his side. The  woman thought, "He is tired and has fallen asleep."
In the meantime the priest arrived. The miller's wife received him  well, and said, "My husband is out, so we can have a feast."
The little peasant listened, and when he heard them talking about  feasting he was angry that he had had to make do with a piece of bread and  cheese. Then the woman served up four different things: a roast, salad,  cake, and wine. They were just about to sit down and eat when someone  knocked on the outside door.
The woman said, "Oh, God, it's my husband." She quickly hid the roast  inside the tile stove, the wine under the pillow, the salad on top of the  bed, the cake under the bed, and the priest in the hallway chest.
Then opening the door for her husband, she said, "Thank heaven, you are  back again. That is such a storm, as if the world were coming to an end."
The miller saw the little peasant lying in the straw and asked, "What  is that fellow doing there?"
"Oh," said his wife, "The poor rascal came in the storm and rain and  asked for shelter, so I gave him a piece of bread and cheese, and let him  lie in the straw."
The man said, "I have nothing against that, but hurry and get me  something to eat."
His wife said, " I have nothing but bread and cheese."
"I'll be satisfied with anything," answered her husband. "Bread and  cheese will be good enough for me." Then he looked at the little peasant  and said, "Come and eat some more with me."
The little peasant did not have to be asked twice, but got up and ate.
Afterward the miller saw the hide with the raven in it lying on the  ground, and asked, "What do you have there?"
The little peasant answered, "I have a fortune-teller inside it."
"Can he predict anything for me?" said the miller.
"Why not?" answered the little peasant. "But he only says four things,  and the fifth he keeps to himself."
The miller was curious and said, "Let him predict something."
Then the little peasant pressed against the raven's head, so that he  cawed and said, "krr, krr."
The miller said, "What did he say?"
The little peasant answered, "First of all, he says that there is some  wine under the pillow."
"That would be something!" cried the miller, and went there and found  the wine. "Say some more," he said.
The little peasant made the raven caw again, then said, "Secondly, he  says that there is a roast in the tile stove."
"That would be something!" cried the miller, and went there and found  the roast.
The little peasant made the raven prophesy still more, and said,  "Thirdly, he says that there is some salad on top of the bed."
"That would be something!" cried the miller, and went there and found  the salad.
At last the little peasant pressed against the raven once more until he  cawed, and said, "Fourthly, he says that there is a cake under the bed."
"That would be something!" cried the miller, and looked there and found  the cake. Then the two of them sat down at the table together. But the  miller's wife was frightened to death and went to bed, taking all the keys  with her.
The miller would have liked very much to know the fifth thing, but the  little peasant said, "First, let us eat the four things in peace, for the  fifth thing is something bad."
So they ate, after which they bargained as to how much the miller would  pay for the fifth prophesy, finally agreeing on three hundred talers. Then  the little peasant once more pressed against the raven's head until he  cawed loudly.
The miller asked, "What did he say?"
The little peasant answered, "He says that the devil is hiding out  there in the hallway chest."
The miller said, "The devil must leave," and opened the outside door.
Then the woman had to give up the keys, and the little peasant unlocked  the chest. The priest ran out as fast as he could, and the miller said, "  I saw the black fellow with my own eyes. It was true."
The next morning at dawn the little peasant quickly made off the with  the three hundred talers.
At home the little peasant gradually began to prosper. He built a nice  house, and the peasants said, "The little peasant has certainly been to  the place where golden snow falls and people carry money home by the  bushel."
Then the little peasant was summoned before the mayor and ordered to  tell where his wealth came from.
He answered, "I sold my cow's hide in the town for three hundred  talers."
When the peasants heard this, they too wanted to benefit from this  favorable exchange. They ran home, slaughtered all their cows, and  stripped off their hides in order to sell them in the town at this great  profit.
The mayor, however, said, "But my maid must go first."
When she came to the buyer in the town, he did not give her more than  three talers for one hide, and when the others came, he did not give them  even that much, saying, "What am I to do with all these hides?"
Then the peasants were angry that the little peasant had deceived them.  Wanting to take revenge against him, they accused him of fraud before the  mayor. The innocent little peasant was unanimously sentenced to death, and  he was to be rolled into the water in a barrel pierced with holes. He was  led out, and a priest was brought who was to say a mass for his soul. The  others had to step back, and when the little peasant looked at the priest  he recognized the man who had been with the miller's wife.
He said to him, "I freed you from the chest. Free me from the barrel."
Just then a shepherd came by with a flock of sheep. It was the very  shepherd who, as the little peasant knew, had long wanted to be mayor.  Then the little peasant cried out with all his might, "No, I will not do  it! Even if the whole world insists on it, I will not do it!"
Hearing this, the shepherd came up to him, and asked, "What are you up  to? What is it that you will not do?"
The little peasant said, "They want to make me mayor, if I will get  into the barrel, but I will not do it."
The shepherd said, "If that is all that is needed to be mayor, I would  get into the barrel at once."
The little peasant said, "If you will get in, then you will be mayor."
The shepherd agreed and got in, and the little peasant nailed the top  down. Then he took the shepherd's flock for himself, and drove it away.  The priest went to the people and told them that the mass had been read.  Then they came and rolled the barrel towards the water. As the barrel  began to roll, the shepherd cried out, "I will gladly be mayor."
They believed that it was the little peasant who was saying this and  answered, "That is what we intend, but first take a look around down  there," and they rolled the barrel into the water.
After that the peasants went home, and as they were entering the  village, the little peasant approached them, happily driving a flock of  sheep. The astonished peasants said, "Little peasant, where are you coming  from? Did you come out of the water?"
"Yes indeed," answered the little peasant. "I sank deep, deep down,  until at last I reached the bottom. I pushed the bottom out of the barrel,  and crawled out. There were beautiful meadows there, where many lambs were  grazing. I brought this flock with me from there."
The peasants said, "Are there more there?"
"Oh, yes," he said. "More than you could use."
Then the peasants decided that they too would get some sheep for  themselves, a flock for each one of them, but the mayor said, "I come  first."
So they went to the water together, and just then in the blue sky there  were some of the small fleecy clouds that are called little lambs. They  were reflected in the water, and the peasants cried out, "We can already  see the sheep down there on the bottom."
The mayor pushed his way to the front, saying, "I will go down first,  and take a look around. If everything is all right, I shall call you."  Then he jumped in.
"Plop," went the water. They thought that he was calling them to come,  and the whole lot of them hastily plunged in after him.
Then the entire village was dead, and the little peasant, as the only  heir, became a rich man.

Little Red Cap

One day her mother said to her, "Come Little Red Cap. Here is a piece of cake and a bottle of wine. Take them to your grandmother. She is sick and weak, and they will do her well. Mind your manners and give her my greetings. Behave yourself on the way, and do not leave the path, or you might fall down and break the glass, and then there will be nothing for your grandmother. And when you enter her parlor, don't forget to say 'Good morning,' and don't peer into all the corners first."
"I'll do everything just right," said Little Red Cap, shaking her mother's hand.
The grandmother lived out in the woods, a half hour from the village. When Little Red Cap entered the woods a wolf came up to her. She did not know what a wicked animal he was, and was not afraid of him.
"Good day to you, Little Red Cap."
"Thank you, wolf."
"Where are you going so early, Little Red Cap?"
"To grandmother's."
"And what are you carrying under your apron?"
"Grandmother is sick and weak, and I am taking her some cake and wine. We baked yesterday, and they should be good for her and give her strength."
"Little Red Cap, just where does your grandmother live?"
"Her house is good quarter hour from here in the woods, under the three large oak trees. There's a hedge of hazel bushes there. You must know the place," said Little Red Cap.
The wolf thought to himself, "Now that sweet young thing is a tasty bite for me. She will taste even better than the old woman. You must be sly, and you can catch them both."
He walked along a little while with Little Red Cap, then he said, "Little Red Cap, just look at the beautiful flowers that are all around us. Why don't you go and take a look? And I don't believe you can hear how beautifully the birds are singing. You are walking along as though you were on your way to school. It is very beautiful in the woods."
Little Red Cap opened her eyes and when she saw the sunbeams dancing to and fro through the trees and how the ground was covered with beautiful flowers, she thought, "If a take a fresh bouquet to grandmother, she will be very pleased. Anyway, it is still early, and I'll be home on time." And she ran off the path into the woods looking for flowers. Each time she picked one she thought that she could see an even more beautiful one a little way off, and she ran after it, going further and further into the woods. But the wolf ran straight to the grandmother's house and knocked on the door.
"Who's there?"
"Little Red Cap. I'm bringing you some cake and wine. Open the door."
"Just press the latch," called out the grandmother. "I'm too weak to get up."
The wolf pressed the latch, and the door opened. He stepped inside, went straight to the grandmother's bed, and ate her up. Then he put on her clothes, put her cap on his head, got into her bed, and pulled the curtains shut.
Little Red Cap had run after the flowers. After she had gathered so many that she could not carry any more, she remembered her grandmother, and then continued on her way to her house. She found, to her surprise, that the door was open. She walked into the parlor, and everything looked so strange that she thought, "Oh, my God, why am I so afraid? I usually like it at grandmother's."
She called out, "Good morning!" but received no answer.
Then she went to the bed and pulled back the curtains. Grandmother was lying there with her cap pulled down over her face and looking very strange.
"Oh, grandmother, what big ears you have!"
"All the better to hear you with."
"Oh, grandmother, what big eyes you have!"
"All the better to see you with."
"Oh, grandmother, what big hands you have!"
"All the better to grab you with!"
"Oh, grandmother, what a horribly big mouth you have!"
"All the better to eat you with!"
The wolf had scarcely finished speaking when he jumped from the bed with a single leap and ate up poor Little Red Cap. As soon as the wolf had satisfied his desires, he climbed back into bed, fell asleep, and began to snore very loudly.
A huntsman was just passing by. He thought, "The old woman is snoring so loudly. You had better see if something is wrong with her."
He stepped into the parlor, and when he approached the bed, he saw the wolf lying there. "So here I find you, you old sinner," he said. "I have been hunting for you a long time."
He was about to aim his rifle when it occurred to him that the wolf might have eaten the grandmother, and that she still might be rescued. So instead of shooting, he took a pair of scissors and began to cut open the wolf's belly. After a few cuts he saw the red cap shining through., and after a few more cuts the girl jumped out, crying, "Oh, I was so frightened! It was so dark inside the wolf's body!"
And then the grandmother came out as well, alive but hardly able to breathe. Then Little Red Cap fetched some large stones. She filled the wolf's body with them, and when he woke up and tried to run away, the stones were so heavy that he immediately fell down dead.
The three of them were happy. The huntsman skinned the wolf and went home with the pelt. The grandmother ate the cake and drank the wine that Little Red Cap had brought. And Little Red Cap thought, "As long as I live, I will never leave the path and run off into the woods by myself if mother tells me not to."
They also tell how Little Red Cap was taking some baked things to her grandmother another time, when another wolf spoke to her and wanted her to leave the path. But Little Red Cap took care and went straight to grandmother's. She told her that she had seen the wolf, and that he had wished her a good day, but had stared at her in a wicked manner. "If we hadn't been on a public road, he would have eaten me up," she said.
"Come," said the grandmother. "Let's lock the door, so he can't get in."
Soon afterward the wolf knocked on the door and called out, "Open up, grandmother. It's Little Red Cap, and I'm bringing you some baked things."
They remained silent, and did not open the door. Gray-Head crept around the house several times, and finally jumped onto the roof. He wanted to wait until Little Red Cap went home that evening, then follow her and eat her up in the darkness. But the grandmother saw what he was up to. There was a large stone trough in front of the house.

The Three Feathers

So there would be no dispute among them, he led them to the front of his  castle, blew three feathers into the air, and said, "As they fly, so shall  you go."
The one feather flew to the east, the other to the west, and the third  feather flew straight ahead, falling quickly to the ground after going  only a short distance. The one brother went to the right, the other to the  left, and they laughed at the Simpleton who had to stand there where the  third feather had fallen.
The Simpleton sat down and was sad. Then he suddenly noticed that there  was a trapdoor next to his feather. He lifted it up, found a stairway, and  climbed down inside. He came to another door and knocked on it, upon which  he heard someone calling out from within:
The door opened, and he saw a big, fat toad sitting there, surrounded by a  large number of little toads. The fat toad asked what he wanted.
The Simpleton answered, "I would like the most beautiful and finest  carpet."
Then the fat toad called to a young toad, saying:
The young toad brought the box, and the fat toad opened it, then gave the  Simpleton a carpet from it. It was so beautiful and so fine, the like of  which could never have been woven in the world above. He thanked the toad  and climbed back out.
Now the other two thought that their brother was so stupid that he would  not find anything to bring home.
"Why should we spend a lot of effort looking for a carpet?" they said, so  they took some pieces of course cloth from the first shepherd's wife they  came to, and took these back home to the king.
At the same time they returned home, the Simpleton arrived, bringing his  beautiful carpet. When the king saw it, he was astounded, and said, "It is  only right that the kingdom should go to my youngest son."
However, the two other sons gave their father no peace, saying that it  would be impossible for the Simpleton to become king, because he lacked  understanding in all things. They asked him to declare another contest.
Then the father said, "He who brings me the most beautiful ring shall  inherit the kingdom." Leading the three brothers outside, he blew the  three feathers into the air that they were to follow.
The two oldest brothers again went to the east and to the west, and the  Simpleton's feather again flew straight ahead, falling down next to the  door in the ground. Once again he climbed down to the fat toad and told it  that he needed the most beautiful ring. The toad had the box brought out  again and gave him from it a ring that glistened with precious stones and  was so beautiful that no goldsmith on earth could have made it.
The two oldest brothers laughed at the Simpleton, who was going to look  for a golden ring, and they took no effort at all. Instead, they drove the  nails out of an old wagon ring and brought it to the king. However, when  the Simpleton presented his ring, the king said once again, "The kingdom  belongs to him."
The two oldest sons tormented the king endlessly, until finally he  declared a third contest, saying that he who would bring home the most  beautiful woman should have the kingdom.
Once again he blew the three feathers into the air and they flew in the  same directions as before.
Without hesitating, the Simpleton went back to the fat toad and said, "I  am supposed to take home the most beautiful woman."
"Oh!" answered the toad. "The most beautiful woman! She is not here at the  moment, but you shall have her nonetheless."
The fat toad gave him a hollowed out yellow turnip, to which were  harnessed six little mice.
The Simpleton said sadly, "What am I to do with this?"
The toad answered, "Just put one of my little toads inside it."
The he grabbed one of them from the group and set it inside the yellow  coach. The little toad was scarcely inside when it turned into a beautiful  young lady, the turnip into a coach, and the six mice into horses. He  kissed her, raced away with the horses, and brought her to the king.
His brothers came along afterward. They had given no effort to find a  beautiful woman, but simply brought along the first peasant women they had  come upon.
After looking at them, the king said, "After my death the kingdom belongs  to my youngest son."
However, the two oldest sons again deafened the king's ears with the cry,  "We cannot allow the Simpleton to become king," and they demanded that the  preference should go to the brother whose woman could jump through a hoop  that was hanging in the middle of the hall.
They thought, "The peasant women will be able to do that very well. They  are very strong, but the dainty lady will jump herself to death."
The old king gave in to this as well. The two peasant women did indeed  jump through the hoop, but they were so plump that each one fell, breaking  her thick arms and legs. Then the beautiful lady, that the Simpleton had  brought home, jumped, and she jumped through the hoop as lightly as a  deer.
After this all the protests had to stop. Thus the Simpleton received the  crown, and he ruled wisely for a long time.


Fitcher's Bird

Everything was splendid in the house, and he gave her everything that she  wanted. He said, "My dear, you will like it here with me. You will have  everything that your heart desires."
So it went for a few days, and then he said to her, "I have to go away and  leave you alone for a short time. Here are the house keys. You may go  everywhere and look at everything except for the one room that this little  key here unlocks. I forbid you to go there on the penalty of death."
He also gave her an egg, saying, "Take good care of this egg. You should  carry it with you at all times, for if you should loose it great  misfortune would follow."
She took the keys and the egg, and promised to take good care of  everything.
As soon as he had gone she walked about in the house from top to bottom  examining everything. The rooms glistened with silver and gold, and she  thought that she had never seen such splendor.
Finally she came to the forbidden door. She wanted to pass it by, but  curiosity gave her no rest. She examined the key. It looked like any other  one. She put it into the lock and twisted it a little, and then the door  sprang open.
What did she see when she stepped inside? A large bloody basin stood in  the middle, inside which there lay the cut up parts of dead girls. Nearby  there was a wooden block with a glistening ax lying on it.
She was so terrified that the egg, which she was holding in her hand, fell  into the basin. She got it out again and wiped off the blood, but it was  to no avail, for it always came back. She wiped and scrubbed, but she  could not get rid of the stain.
Not long afterward the man returned from his journey, and he immediately  asked for the key and the egg. She handed them to him, shaking all the  while, for he saw from the red stain that she had been in the blood  chamber.
"You went into that chamber against my will," he said, "and now against  your will you shall go into it once again. Your life is finished."
He threw her down, dragged her by her hair into the chamber, cut off her  head on the block, then cut her up into pieces, and her blood flowed out  onto the floor. Then he threw her into the basin with the others.
"Now I will go get the second one," said the sorcerer, and, again  disguised as a poor man, he went to their house begging.
The second sister brought him a piece of bread, and, as he had done to the  first one, he captured her by merely touching her, and he carried her  away. It went with her no better than it had gone with her sister. She let  herself be led astray by her curiosity, opened the blood chamber and  looked inside. When he returned she paid with her life.
Then he went and captured the third sister, but she was clever and sly.  After he had given her the keys and the egg, and had gone away, she  carefully put the egg aside, and then examined the house, entering finally  the forbidden chamber.
Oh, what she saw! He two dear sisters were lying there in the basin,  miserably murdered and chopped to pieces. In spite of this she proceeded  to gather their parts together, placing them back in order: head, body,  arms, and legs. Then, when nothing else was missing, the parts began to  move. They joined together, and the two girls opened their eyes and came  back to life. Rejoicing, they kissed and hugged one another.
When the man returned home he immediately demanded the keys and the egg,  and when he was unable to detect any trace of blood on them, he said, "You  have passed the test. You shall be my bride."
He now had no more power over her and had to do whatever she demanded.
"Good," she answered, "but first you must take a basketful of gold to my  father and mother. You yourself must carry it there on your back. In the  meanwhile I shall make preparations for the wedding."
Then she ran to her sisters, whom she had hidden in a closet, and said,  "The moment is here when I can rescue you. The evildoer himself shall  carry you home. As soon as you have arrived at home send help to me."
She put them both into a basket, then covered them entirely with gold, so  that nothing could be seen of them.
Then she called the sorcerer in and said, "Now carry this basket away, but  you are not to stop and rest underway. Take care, for I shall be watching  you through my little window."
The sorcerer lifted the basket onto his back and walked away with it.  However, it pressed down so heavily on him that the sweat ran from his  face. He sat down, wanting to rest, but immediately one of the girls in  the basket called out, "I am looking through my little window, and I can  see that you are resting. Walk on!"
He thought that his bride was calling to him, so he got up again. Then he  again wanted to sit down, but someone immediately called out, "I am  looking through my little window, and I can see that you are resting. Walk  on!"
Every time that he stopped walking, someone called out, and he had to walk  on until, groaning and out of breath, he brought the basket with the gold  and the two girls to their parents' house.
At home the bride was making preparations for the wedding feast, to which  she had had the sorcerer's friends invited. Then she took a skull with  grinning teeth, adorned it with jewelry and with a wreath of flowers,  carried it to the attic window, and let it look out.
When everything was ready she dipped herself into a barrel of honey, then  cut open the bed and rolled around in it until she looked like a strange  bird, and no one would have been able to recognize her. Then she walked  out of the house.
Underway some of the wedding guests met her, and they asked, "You,  Fitcher's bird, where are you coming from?"
"I am coming from Fitcher's house."
"What is his young bride doing there?"
"She has swept the house from bottom to top, and now she is looking out of  the attic window."
Finally her bridegroom met her. He was slowly walking back home, and, like  the others, he asked, "You, Fitcher's bird, where are you coming from?"
"I am coming from Fitcher's house."
"What is my young bride doing there?"
"She has swept the house from bottom to top, and now she is looking out of  the attic window."
The bridegroom looked up. Seeing the decorated skull, he thought it was  his bride, and he waved a friendly greeting to her.
After he and all his guests had gone into the house, the bride's brothers  and relatives arrived. They had been sent to rescue her. After closing up  all the doors of the house so that no one could escape, they set it afire,  and the sorcerer, together with his gang, all burned to death.

All-Kinds-of-Fur

It happened that she fell ill, and when she felt that she was about to die, she called the king to her and said, "If you want to remarry after my death then do not take anyone who is not as beautiful as I am, and who does not have such golden hair as mine. That you must promise me."
After the king had promised her this, she closed her eyes and died.
For a long time the king could not be comforted, and he did not consider taking a second wife. Finally his councilors said, "There is no other way. The king must remarry, so that we will have a queen."
Then messengers were sent out far and wide to seek a bride, who in beauty was entirely the equal of the deceased queen. However, no such bride could be found in the whole world. And even if a bride this beautiful had been found, she would not have had such golden hair. Thus the messengers returned home without success.
Now the king had a daughter who was just as beautiful as her deceased mother, and who also had such golden hair. After she had come of age, the king looked at her one day that she resembled his deceased wife in every way, and he suddenly felt a great love for her.
Then he said to his councilors, "I will marry my daughter, for she is the image of my deceased wife, and nowhere else can I find a bride who is her equal."
When the councilors heard this they were horrified and said, "God has forbidden that a father should marry his daughter. Nothing good can come from sin, and the kingdom will be pulled along into ruin."
The daughter was even more horrified when she heard her father's decision. Hoping to dissuade him from his intentions, she said to him, "Before I fulfill your wish, I must have three dresses: one as golden as the sun, one as silver as the moon, and one that glistens like the stars. Further, I must have a cloak put together from a thousand kinds of pelts and fur. Every animal in your kingdom must contribute a piece of its skin for it."
Now she thought, "That will be entirely impossible for him to achieve, and in this way I will divert my father from his wicked thoughts."
But the king did not give in, and the most skilled maidens in his kingdom had to weave the three dresses, one as golden as the sun, one as silver as the moon, and one that glistened like the stars. And his huntsmen had to capture all the animals in his entire kingdom and take a piece of skin from each one. From these a cloak of a thousand kinds of fur was made.
Finally, when everything was finished, the king had the cloak brought to him. Spreading it out, he said, "Tomorrow is our wedding day."
When the king's daughter saw that there was no more hope to change her father's mind, she made the decision to run away. During the night, while everyone was asleep, she got up and took three things from among her valuables: a golden ring, a little golden spinning wheel, and a little golden reel. She put the three dresses from the sun, moon, and stars into a nutshell, put on the cloak of all kinds of fur, blackened her hands and face with soot. Then surrendering herself to God, she set forth. She walked the entire night until she came to a great forest. Being tired, she sat down in a hollow tree and fell asleep.
The sun came up, and she continued to sleep, and she was still asleep by broad daylight. Now it came to pass that the king who owned these woods was hunting in them. When his dogs approached the tree they sniffed then ran around it barking.
The king said to the huntsmen. "See what kind of wild animal is hiding there."
The huntsmen followed his command, and when they returned they said, "A strange animal, like none we have ever seen before, is lying in the hollow tree. There are a thousand kinds of fur on its skin. It is just lying there asleep."
The king said, "See if you can capture it alive, then tie it onto the cart and bring it along."
When the huntsmen took hold of the girl, she awoke. Filled with fear, she cried out, "I am a poor child who has been abandoned by her father and mother. Have pity on me and take me with you."
Then they said, "All-Kinds-of-Fur, you are good for the kitchen. Come with us. You can sweep up the ashes."
Thus they set her on the cart and drove her home to the royal castle. There they showed her a little cubbyhole under the stairs, where the light of day never entered, and said, "This is where you can live and sleep, you furry little animal."
Then she was sent to the kitchen, where she carried wood and water, tended the fire, plucked the poultry, sorted vegetables, swept up the ashes, and did all the dirty work.
All-Kinds-of-Fur lived there miserable for a long time. Oh, you beautiful princess, what will become of you?
Now one day it happened that a banquet was being held in the castle, and she said to the cook, "May I go up for a little while and take a look? I will stand outside the door."
The cook answered, "Yes, go ahead. But you have to be back here in a half hour and carry out the ashes."
Then she took her oil lamp and went into her cubbyhole. Taking off her fur cloak, she washed the soot from her hands and face so that her full beauty again came to light. Then she opened the nut and took out her dress that glistened like the sun. And after she had done all this she went upstairs to the banquet. Everyone stepped out of her way, for no one knew her, and everyone thought that she was a princess.
The king approached her, reached his hand out to her, and danced with her, and thought in his heart, "My eyes have never before seen such beauty."
When the dance had ended, she curtsied, and while the king was looking around, she disappeared, and no one knew where she had gone. The guards who stood watch in front of the castle were called and questioned, but no one had seen her.
Now she had run back to her cubbyhole, quickly taken off her dress, blackened her hands and face, put on the fur cloak, and was once again All-Kinds-of-Fur.
After she had returned to the kitchen and was about to set to work and sweep up the ashes, the cook said, "That's enough until tomorrow. Make the king's soup for me, so I can have a look upstairs, but don't let a hair fall into it, or in the future there will nothing more for you to eat."
Then the cook went away, and All-Kinds-of-Fur made soup for the king. She made bread soup, and as good as she knew how. When it was done, she got her golden ring from the cubbyhole and placed it in the bowl that the soup was in.
When the dance was over, the king had his soup brought to him. He ate it, and it tasted so good to him, that he thought he had never eaten a better soup. But when he reached the bottom of the bowl, he saw a golden ring lying there, and he could not imagine how it had gotten there.
He ordered the cook to come before him. The cook was terrified when he heard this order, and he said to All-Kinds-of-Fur, "For sure you let a hair fall into the soup. If that's true, you'll get a beating."
When the cook came before the king he was asked who had cooked the soup, and he answered, "I cooked it."
The king said, "That is not true, for it was made in a different way, and much better than usual."
The cook answered, "I must confess that I did not cook it, it was the little furry animal."
The king said, "Go and have her come up here."
When All-Kinds-of-Fur arrived, the king asked, "Who are you."
"I am a poor child who no longer has a father or a mother."
He asked further, "What are you doing in my castle?"
She answered, "I am good for nothing, except having boots thrown at my head."
He asked further, "Where did you get the ring that was in the soup?"
She answered, "I do not know anything about the ring."
Thus the king could learn nothing, and he had to send her away again.
Some time later there was another banquet, and All-Kinds-of-Fur, as before, asked the cook for permission to have a look. He answered, "Yes, but come back in a half hour and cook the bread soup for the king that he likes so much."
She ran to her cubbyhole, quickly washed herself then took from the nut the dress that was as silver as the moon and put it on. Then she went upstairs and looked like a princess. The king came up to her and was delighted to see her again, and because a dance was just beginning, they danced together. But as soon as the dance was over she again disappeared so quickly that the king did not notice where she went.
She ran to her cubbyhole, turned herself back into a furry animal, and went to the kitchen to make the bread soup. While the cook was upstairs she got the golden spinning wheel and put it in the bowl, so that the soup was prepared on top of it. Then it was taken to the king, who ate it, and it tasted as good to him as the last time. He had the cook brought before him, who again had to confess that All-Kinds-of-Fur had made the soup. All-Kinds-of-Fur again came before the king, and she answered that she was only good for having boots thrown at her head, and that she knew nothing at all about the little golden spinning wheel.
When the king gave a banquet for the third time, everything happened as before. But this time the cook said, "You are a witch, you furry animal, always putting something in the soup that makes it very good and taste better to the king." But because she asked, he allowed her to look in on the ball at the appointed time.
This time she put on the dress that glistened like the stars, and thus clothed she stepped into the hall. The king danced again with the beautiful maiden, thinking that she had never been so beautiful. And while he was dancing he placed a golden ring on her finger, without her noticing it. Further, he had ordered that this dance should last a long time. When it was over, he tried to keep hold of her by her hands, but she tore herself loose and jumped so quickly into the crowd that she disappeared before his eyes. She ran as fast as she could to her cubbyhole beneath the steps, but because she had stayed away too long, more than a half hour, she could not take off the beautiful dress, but instead just threw the fur cloak on over it. And in her haste she did not cover herself entirely with soot, and one finger remained white.
All-Kinds-of-Fur now ran into the kitchen, made the bread soup for the king, and while the cook was away, put the golden reel in it.
When the king found the reel at the bottom of his bowl had All-Kinds-of-Fur called before him. Catching sight of the white finger, he saw the ring that he had put on her while they were dancing. He seized her by the hand and held her fast. As she attempted to free herself and run away, her fur cloak opened a little, and the dress of stars glistened out. The king grabbed the cloak and tore it off. Her golden hair appeared, and she stood there in full splendor, no longer able to hide. And after she had wiped the soot and ashes from her face, she was more beautiful than anyone who had ever been seen on earth.
The king said, "You are my dear bride, and we shall never part."
Then their wedding was celebrated, and they lived happily until they died.

The Hare's Bride

The girl said to the hare, "Shoo, shoo, hare! You're eating all our cabbages."
The hare said, "Come, girl, sit on my tail, and come with me to my hut."
The girl would not do that.
The next day the hare came again and ate cabbages, so the woman said to her daughter, "Go to the garden, and chase the hare away."
The girl said to the hare, "Shoo, shoo, hare! You're eating all our cabbages."
The hare said, "Come, girl, sit on my tail, and come with me to my hut."
The girl would not do that.
On the third day the hare came again and ate cabbages, so the woman said to her daughter, "Go to the garden and chase the hare away."
The girl said, "Shoo, shoo, hare! You're eating all our cabbages."
The hare said, "Come, girl, sit on my tail, and come with me to my hut."
So the girl sat on the hare's tail, and the hare took her far away to his little hut, and then said, "Now cook some green cabbage and millet. "I'm going out to invite guests to our wedding."
Then all the wedding guests arrived.  Who were the wedding guests? I can tell you, because someone else told me.  They were all hares, and the crow was there as parson to marry the bride and bridegroom, and the fox served as sexton, and their altar was under the rainbow.
But the girl was sad, for she was all alone.
The hare came up to her and said, "Open the door! Open the door! The wedding guests are making merry."
The bride cried and said nothing.  The hare went away.  Then the hare came back and said, "Open the door! Open the door! The wedding guests are hungry."
The bride continued to cry, and said nothing.  The hare went away. Then he came back and said, "Open the door! Open the door! The wedding guests are waiting."
The bride said nothing, and the hare went away. Then she dressed a straw doll in her clothes, gave it a stirring-spoon, and stood it next to the millet pot. Then she went back to her mother.
The hare came once more and said, "Open the door! Open the door!"  Then he opened the door himself and struck the doll on the head so that its cap fell off. Then the hare saw that this was not his bride, and he sadly went away.

The Twelve Huntsmen

Then he said to his beloved, "I must now go and leave you. I give you a  ring to remember me by. As soon as I am king, I will return and take you  home with me."
Then he rode away, and when he reached his father, the latter was  mortally ill and near death.
The king said to him, "My dearest son, I wanted to see you one more  time before my end. Promise me to marry the woman of my choice," and he  named a certain princess who was to become his wife.
The son was so grieved that without thinking he said, "Yes, dear  father, your will shall be done."
Then the king closed his eyes and died.
After the son had been proclaimed king, and the period of mourning had  passed, he had to keep the promise that he had given his father. He  proposed marriage to the princess, and she was promised to him.
His first fiance heard about this, and was so saddened by his  faithlessness that she nearly died.
Then her father said to her, "Dearest child, why are you so sad? You  shall have whatever you want."
She thought for a moment and then said, "Dear father, I want eleven  girls exactly like myself in appearance, figure, and size."
The father said, "If it is possible, your wish shall be fulfilled," and  he had his entire kingdom searched until eleven girls were found who were  exactly like his daughter in appearance, figure, and size.
When they came to the princess, she had twelve huntsmen's outfits made,  each one like the others. The eleven girls put on the huntsmen's outfits,  and she herself put on the twelfth outfit.
After this she took leave of her father, and rode away with them. They  rode to the court of her former fianc, whom she loved so dearly.  There she asked if he needed any huntsmen, and if he would take all of  them into his service. The king looked at her without recognizing her.  Because they were such good-looking fellows, he said, yes, that he would  willingly take them, and then they were the king's twelve huntsmen.
Now the king had a lion that was a miraculous animal, for he knew all  hidden and secret things. It happened that one evening the lion said to  the king, "You think that you have twelve huntsmen."
"Yes," said the king, "they are twelve huntsmen."
The lion continued, "You are mistaken. They are twelve girls."
The king said, "That is absolutely not true. How can you prove that to  me?"
"Oh, just have some peas scattered in your antechamber," answered the  lion, "and then you shall soon see. Men have a firm step, and when they  walk over the peas, none of them will be moved. On the other hand, girls  trip and skip and shuffle their feet, rolling the peas about."
The king liked this advise and had peas scattered on the floor.
Now one of the king's servants liked the huntsmen, and when he heard  that they were going to be put to this test, he went to them and told them  everything, saying, "The lion wants to make the king believe that you are  girls."
The princess thanked him, then said to her girls, "Be strong, and step  firmly on the peas."
The next morning the king had the twelve huntsmen called before him.  When they came into the antechamber where the peas were lying, they  stepped so firmly on them, and had such a strong, sure walk, that not one  of the peas rolled or moved.
After they had gone, the king said to the lion, "You lied to me. They  walk just like men."
The lion said, "They knew that were going to be put to a test, and  acted like they were strong. Just have twelve spinning wheels brought into  the antechamber. They will go up to them and admire them. No man would do  that."
The king liked this advice, and he had the spinning wheels set up in  the antechamber.
But the servant who was honest with the huntsmen went to them and told  them about the proposal.
So when they were alone, the princess said to her eleven girls, "Be  strong and do not look around at the spinning wheels."
The next morning when the king had his twelve huntsmen summoned, they  walked through the antechamber without looking at the spinning wheels at  all.
Then the king again said to the lion, "You lied to me. They are men,  for they did not look at the spinning wheels."
The lion answered, "They knew that they were going to be put to a test,  and acted like they were strong."
The king, however, refused to believe the lion anymore.
The twelve huntsmen always accompanied the king hunting, and the longer  he knew them, the better he liked them. Now it happened that once when  they were out hunting, news came that the king's bride was approaching.  When the true bride heard this, it hurt her so much that it almost broke  her heart, and she fainted and fell to the ground.
Thinking that something had happened to his dear huntsman, the king ran  up to him in order to help him. Pulling the huntsman's glove off, he saw  the ring that he had given to his first fiance, and when he looked  into her face, he recognized her. Then his heart was so touched that he  kissed her, and when she opened her eyes he said, "You are mine, and I am  yours, and no one in the world can change that."
He sent a messenger to the other bride, and asked her to return to her  own kingdom, for, as he informed her, he already had a wife, and someone  who had found an old key did not need a new one.
After this their wedding was celebrated, and the lion was accepted back  into favor, because, after all, he had told the truth.

The Good Bargain

"Well," he said he to himself, "they are talking nonsense. It is seven  that I was paid, not eight."
When he reached the water, he shouted to them, "You are stupid  creatures. Don't you know any better than that? It is seven talers, not  eight."
The frogs, however, kept up with their "ak, ak, ak, ak."
"Now then, if you won't believe it, I can count it out for you." Then  taking his money out of his pocket, he counted out the seven talers,  twenty-four groschens in each one.
However, the frogs paid no attention to his counting, and again cried  out, "ak, ak, ak, ak."
"Aha!" shouted the peasant, quite angry. "If you think that you know  better than I do, then count it yourselves," and he threw all the money at  them into the water. He stood still, wanting to stay there until they were  finished and had returned his money to him, but the frogs did not budge  from their opinion, and continued to cry out, "ak, ak, ak, ak." And  furthermore, they did not throw the money back to him.
He waited a long time, until evening finally came, and he had to go  home. Then he cursed the frogs, shouting at them, "You water-splashers,  you thick-heads, you goggle-eyes, you have big mouths and can shout until  a person's ears hurt, but you cannot count seven talers. Do you think that  I want to stand here until you are finished?"
Then he walked away, with the frogs still crying out after him, "ak,  ak, ak, ak." He arrived at home in a sour mood.
Some time later he bought himself another cow, which he slaughtered. He  calculated that if he sold the meat for a good price, he could earn as  much as the two cows had been worth together, and have the hide as well.
He went to town with the meat. An entire pack of dogs had gathered  together just outside the town gate, with a large greyhound at the head of  the pack. The greyhound jumped at the meat, sniffing and barking, "bow,  wow, bow, wow."
When the dog would not stop, the peasant said to him, "Yes, I  understand that you are saying, "bow, wow," because you want some of the  meat, but I would be in a fine state if I gave it to you."
The dog's only answer was, "bow, wow."
"Will you not eat it all up, and will you be responsible for your  companions?"
"Bow, wow, " said the dog.
"Well, if you insist on it, I will leave it with you. I know you well,  and I know who your master is. But I am telling you, I must have my money  in three days, or you will be sorry. You can just bring it out to me."
With this he unloaded the meat and turned back toward home. The dogs  jumped on the meat, barking loudly, "bow, wow."
The peasant heard them from afar and said to himself, "Listen, they all  want some, but the big dog will be responsible for it."
When three days had passed, the peasant thought, "Tonight you'll have  the money in your pocket," and was quite satisfied. But no one came to pay  him.
"No one is to be trusted nowadays," he said.
Finally he lost his patience and went to town and to the butcher, from  whom he demanded his money. The butcher thought it was a joke, but the  peasant said, "All joking aside, I want my money. Did not the big dog  bring home to you an entire slaughtered cow three days ago?"
Then the butcher grew angry, picked up a broomstick and chased him out.
"Wait," said the peasant. "There is still some justice in the world,"  and he went to the royal palace and asked for a hearing. He was led before  the king, who was sitting there with his daughter. The king asked him what  injury he had suffered.
"Alas," he said, "the frogs and the dogs stole my belongings from me,  and the butcher paid me for my losses with a stick." Then he told them  everything that had happened.
At this the king's daughter began to laugh out loud, and the king said  to him, "I cannot make that right for you, but instead you shall have my  daughter for your wife. She had never laughed before in her whole life,  until just now at you, and I have promised her to the man who could make  her laugh. You can thank God for your good fortune."
"Oh," answered the peasant, "I do not want her. I have one wife at home  already, and she is too much for me. Whenever I go home, it is just as if  I had a wife standing in every corner."
Then the king grew angry, and said, "You are a lout."
"Alas, your majesty," answered the peasant, "what can you expect from  an ox, but beef?"
"Wait," replied the king. "You shall have another reward. Get out of  here for now, but come back in three days, and then five hundred shall be  counted out for you in full."
When the peasant passed through the gate, the sentry said, "You made  the king's daughter laugh, so you must have received something very good."
"Yes, that is right," answered the peasant. "Five hundred are to be  counted out to me."
"Listen," said the soldier. "Give me some of it. How can you spend all  that money?"
"Because it is you," said the peasant, "you shall have two hundred. In  three days report to the king, and have it counted out for you."
A Jew, who had been standing nearby and had overheard the conversation,  ran after the peasant, took hold of his coat, and said, "Miracle of God,  what a child of fortune you are! I will change it for you. I will change  it for you into smaller coins. What do you want with hard talers?"
"Jew," said the peasant, "You can have three hundred. Give it to me  right now in coins. Three days from now you will be paid for it by the  king."
The Jew was delighted with his small profit, and brought the sum in bad  groschens, three of which were worth two good ones. After three days had  passed, in keeping with the king's order, the peasant went before the  king.
"Pull off his coat," said the king "He shall have his five hundred."
"Alas," said the peasant, "they no longer belong to me. I gave two  hundred of them to the sentry, and the Jew has changed three hundred for  me, so rightfully nothing more belongs to me."
In the meantime the soldier and the Jew entered and demanded what they  had received from the peasant, and they received the blows carefully  counted out.
The soldier bore it patiently, for he already knew how it tasted, but  the Jew cried out pitifully, "Oh my, oh my, are these the hard  talers?"
The king had to laugh at the peasant, and when his anger had subsided,  he said, "Because you lost your reward even before you received it, I will  replace it for you. Go into my treasure chamber and take as much money for  yourself as you want."
The peasant did not need to be told twice, and he stuffed as much as  would fit into his big pockets. After that he went to an inn and counted  out his money.
The Jew had crept after him and heard him muttering to himself, "That  rascal of a king has cheated me after all. If he himself had given me the  money, then I would know how much I have. Now how can I know if what I had  the luck to put into my pockets is right?"
"God forbid," said the Jew to himself, "he is speaking disrespectfully  of his majesty. I will run and report him, and then I shall get a reward,  and furthermore he will be punished."
When the king heard what the peasant had said he fell into a rage, and  ordered the Jew to go and bring the offender to him.
The Jew ran to the peasant and said, "You are to go to his majesty the  king at once, and just as you are."
"I know better than that what is right," answered the peasant. "First  let me have a new coat made for myself. Do you think that a man with so  much money in his pockets should go before the king in this tattered old  coat?"
The Jew, seeing that the peasant could not be moved without another  coat, and fearing that if the king's anger cooled, he himself would lose  his reward, and the peasant his punishment, said, "Out of pure friendship  I will lend you a handsome coat for a little while. What people will not  do for love!"
The peasant was satisfied with this, put on the Jew's coat, and went  off with him.
The king confronted the peasant with the evil things the Jew had  accused him of saying.
"Oh," said the peasant, "what a Jew says is always a lie. No true word  ever comes out of his mouth. That rascal there is even capable of claiming  that I have his coat on."
"What are you saying?" shouted the Jew. "Is that coat not mine? Did I  not lend it to you out of pure friendship, so that you could appear before  his majesty the king?"
When the king heard this, he said, "For sure the Jew has deceived one  of us, either myself or the peasant." And once again he had the Jew paid  out in hard talers.
The peasant, however, went home wearing the good coat and with the good  money in his pockets, saying to himself, "This time I made it."

The Wolf and the Man

The wolf answered, "If I could see a man just once, I would attack him nonetheless."
"I can help you to do that," said the fox.  "Come to me early tomorrow morning, and I will show you one."
The wolf arrived on time, and the fox took him out to the path which the huntsman used every day.  First an old discharged soldier came by.
"Is that a man?" asked the wolf.
"No," answered the fox. "He has been one."
Afterwards came a little boy on his way to school.
"Is that a man?"
"No, he will yet become one."
Finally a huntsman came by with his double-barreled gun on his back, and a sword at his side.
The fox said to the wolf, "Look, there comes a man. He is the one you must attack, but I am going back to my den."
The wolf then charged at the man.
When the huntsman saw him he said, "Too bad that I have not loaded with a bullet."  Then he aimed and fired a load of shot into his face.
The wolf pulled an awful face, but did not let himself be frightened, and attacked him again, on which the huntsman gave him the second barrel. The wolf swallowed his pain and charged at the huntsman again, who in turn drew out his naked sword, and gave him a few blows with it left and right, so that, bleeding all over, he ran howling back to the fox.
"Well," Brother Wolf, said the fox, "how did you get along with man?"
"Oh," replied the wolf, "I never imagined the strength of man to be what it is.  First, he took a stick from his shoulder, and blew into it, and then something flew into my face which tickled me terribly.  Then he breathed once more into the stick, and it flew up my nose like lightning and hail.  Then when I got next to him, he drew a naked rib out of his body, and he beat me so with it that he almost killed me."
"See what a braggart you are," said the fox.  "You throw your hatchet so far that you cannot get it back again."

The Juniper Tree

Long ago, at least two thousand years, there was a rich man who had a beautiful and pious wife, and they loved each other dearly. However, they had no children, though they wished very much to have some, and the woman prayed for them day and night, but they didn't get any, and they didn't get any.
In front of their house there was a courtyard where there stood a juniper tree. One day in winter the woman was standing beneath it, peeling herself an apple, and while she was thus peeling the apple, she cut her finger, and the blood fell into the snow.
"Oh," said the woman. She sighed heavily, looked at the blood before her, and was most unhappy. "If only I had a child as red as blood and as white as snow." And as she said that, she became quite contented, and felt sure that it was going to happen.
Then she went into the house, and a month went by, and the snow was gone. And two months, and everything was green. And three months, and all the flowers came out of the earth. And four months, and all the trees in the woods grew thicker, and the green branches were all entwined in one another, and the birds sang until the woods resounded and the blossoms fell from the trees. Then the fifth month passed, and she stood beneath the juniper tree, which smelled so sweet that her heart jumped for joy, and she fell on her knees and was beside herself. And when the sixth month was over, the fruit was thick and large, and then she was quite still. And after the seventh month she picked the juniper berries and ate them greedily. Then she grew sick and sorrowful. Then the eighth month passed, and she called her husband to her, and cried, and said, "If I die, then bury me beneath the juniper tree." Then she was quite comforted and happy until the next month was over, and then she had a child as white as snow and as red as blood, and when she saw it, she was so happy that she died.
Her husband buried her beneath the juniper tree, and he began to cry bitterly. After some time he was more at ease, and although he still cried, he could bear it. And some time later he took another wife.
He had a daughter by the second wife, but the first wife's child was a little son, and he was as red as blood and as white as snow. When the woman looked at her daughter, she loved her very much, but then she looked at the little boy, and it pierced her heart, for she thought that he would always stand in her way, and she was always thinking how she could get the entire inheritance for her daughter. And the Evil One filled her mind with this until she grew very angry with the little boy, and she pushed him from one corner to the other and slapped him here and cuffed him there, until the poor child was always afraid, for when he came home from school there was nowhere he could find any peace.
One day the woman had gone upstairs to her room, when her little daughter came up too, and said, "Mother, give me an apple."
"Yes, my child," said the woman, and gave her a beautiful apple out of the chest. The chest had a large heavy lid with a large sharp iron lock.
"Mother," said the little daughter, "is brother not to have one too?"
This made the woman angry, but she said, "Yes, when he comes home from school."
When from the window she saw him coming, it was as though the Evil One came over her, and she grabbed the apple and took it away from her daughter, saying, "You shall not have one before your brother."
She threw the apple into the chest, and shut it. Then the little boy came in the door, and the Evil One made her say to him kindly, "My son, do you want an apple?" And she looked at him fiercely.
"Mother," said the little boy, "how angry you look. Yes, give me an apple."
Then it seemed to her as if she had to persuade him. "Come with me," she said, opening the lid of the chest. "Take out an apple for yourself." And while the little boy was leaning over, the Evil One prompted her, and crash! she slammed down the lid, and his head flew off, falling among the red apples.
Then fear overcame her, and she thought, "Maybe I can get out of this." So she went upstairs to her room to her chest of drawers, and took a white scarf out of the top drawer, and set the head on the neck again, tying the scarf around it so that nothing could be seen. Then she set him on a chair in front of the door and put the apple in his hand.
After this Marlene came into the kitchen to her mother, who was standing by the fire with a pot of hot water before her which she was stirring around and around.
"Mother," said Marlene, "brother is sitting at the door, and he looks totally white and has an apple in his hand. I asked him to give me the apple, but he did not answer me, and I was very frightened."
"Go back to him," said her mother, "and if he will not answer you, then box his ears."
So Marlene went to him and said, "Brother, give me the apple." But he was silent, so she gave him one on the ear, and his head fell off. Marlene was terrified, and began crying and screaming, and ran to her mother, and said, "Oh, mother, I have knocked my brother's head off," and she cried and cried and could not be comforted.
"Marlene," said the mother, "what have you done? Be quiet and don't let anyone know about it. It cannot be helped now. We will cook him into stew."
Then the mother took the little boy and chopped him in pieces, put him into the pot, and cooked him into stew. But Marlene stood by crying and crying, and all her tears fell into the pot, and they did not need any salt.
Then the father came home, and sat down at the table and said, "Where is my son?" And the mother served up a large, large dish of stew, and Marlene cried and could not stop.
Then the father said again, "Where is my son?"
"Oh," said the mother, "he has gone across the country to his mother's great uncle. He will stay there awhile."
"What is he doing there? He did not even say good-bye to me."
"Oh, he wanted to go, and asked me if he could stay six weeks. He will be well taken care of there."
"Oh," said the man, "I am unhappy. It isn't right. He should have said good-bye to me." With that he began to eat, saying, "Marlene, why are you crying? Your brother will certainly come back."
Then he said, "Wife, this food is delicious. Give me some more." And the more he ate the more he wanted, and he said, "Give me some more. You two shall have none of it. It seems to me as if it were all mine." And he ate and ate, throwing all the bones under the table, until he had finished it all.
Marlene went to her chest of drawers, took her best silk scarf from the bottom drawer, and gathered all the bones from beneath the table and tied them up in her silk scarf, then carried them outside the door, crying tears of blood.
She laid them down beneath the juniper tree on the green grass, and after she had put them there, she suddenly felt better and did not cry anymore.
Then the juniper tree began to move. The branches moved apart, then moved together again, just as if someone were rejoicing and clapping his hands. At the same time a mist seemed to rise from the tree, and in the center of this mist it burned like a fire, and a beautiful bird flew out of the fire singing magnificently, and it flew high into the air, and when it was gone, the juniper tree was just as it had been before, and the cloth with the bones was no longer there. Marlene, however, was as happy and contented as if her brother were still alive. And she went merrily into the house, sat down at the table, and ate.
Then the bird flew away and lit on a goldsmith's house, and began to sing:
The goldsmith was sitting in his workshop making a golden chain, when he heard the bird sitting on his roof and singing. The song seemed very beautiful to him. He stood up, but as he crossed the threshold he lost one of his slippers. However, he went right up the middle of the street with only one slipper and one sock on. He had his leather apron on, and in one hand he had a golden chain and in the other his tongs. The sun was shining brightly on the street.
He walked onward, then stood still and said to the bird, "Bird," he said, "how beautifully you can sing. Sing that piece again for me."
"No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. Give me the golden chain, and then I will sing it again for you."
The goldsmith said, "Here is the golden chain for you. Now sing that song again for me." Then the bird came and took the golden chain in his right claw, and went and sat in front of the goldsmith, and sang:
Then the bird flew away to a shoemaker, and lit on his roof and sang:
Hearing this, the shoemaker ran out of doors in his shirtsleeves, and looked up at his roof, and had to hold his hand in front of his eyes to keep the sun from blinding him. "Bird," said he, "how beautifully you can sing."
Then he called in at his door, "Wife, come outside. There is a bird here. Look at this bird. He certainly can sing." Then he called his daughter and her children, and the journeyman, and the apprentice, and the maid, and they all came out into the street and looked at the bird and saw how beautiful he was, and what fine red and green feathers he had, and how his neck was like pure gold, and how his eyes shone like stars in his head.
"Bird," said the shoemaker, "now sing that song again for me."
"No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. You must give me something."
"Wife," said the man, "go into the shop. There is a pair of red shoes on the top shelf. Bring them down." Then the wife went and brought the shoes.
"There, bird," said the man, "now sing that piece again for me." Then the bird came and took the shoes in his left claw, and flew back to the roof, and sang:
When he had finished his song he flew away. In his right claw he had the chain and in his left one the shoes. He flew far away to a mill, and the mill went clickety-clack, clickety-clack, clickety-clack. In the mill sat twenty miller's apprentices cutting a stone, and chiseling chip-chop, chip-chop, chip-chop. And the mill went clickety-clack, clickety-clack, clickety-clack.
Then the bird went and sat on a linden tree which stood in front of the mill, and sang:
Then one of them stopped working.
Then two more stopped working and listened,
Then four more stopped,
Now only eight only were chiseling,
Now only five,
Now only one,
Then the last one stopped also, and heard the last words. "Bird," said he, "how beautifully you sing. Let me hear that too. Sing it once more for me."
"No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. Give me the millstone, and then I will sing it again."
"Yes," he said, "if it belonged only to me, you should have it."
"Yes," said the others, "if he sings again he can have it."
Then the bird came down, and the twenty millers took a beam and lifted the stone up. Yo-heave-ho! Yo-heave-ho! Yo-heave-ho!
The bird stuck his neck through the hole and put the stone on as if it were a collar, then flew to the tree again, and sang:
When he was finished singing, he spread his wings, and in his right claw he had the chain, and in his left one the shoes, and around his neck the millstone. He flew far away to his father's house.
In the room the father, the mother, and Marlene were sitting at the table.
The father said, "I feel so contented. I am so happy."
"Not I," said the mother, "I feel uneasy, just as if a bad storm were coming."
But Marlene just sat and cried and cried.
Then the bird flew up, and as it seated itself on the roof, the father said, "Oh, I feel so truly happy, and the sun is shining so beautifully outside. I feel as if I were about to see some old acquaintance again."
"Not I," said the woman, "I am so afraid that my teeth are chattering, and I feel like I have fire in my veins." And she tore open her bodice even more. Marlene sat in a corner crying. She held a handkerchief before her eyes and cried until it was wet clear through.
Then the bird seated itself on the juniper tree, and sang:
The mother stopped her ears and shut her eyes, not wanting to see or hear, but there was a roaring in her ears like the fiercest storm, and her eyes burned and flashed like lightning.
"Oh, mother," said the man, "that is a beautiful bird. He is singing so splendidly, and the sun is shining so warmly, and it smells like pure cinnamon."
Then Marlene laid her head on her knees and cried and cried, but the man said, "I am going out. I must see the bird up close."
"Oh, don't go," said the woman, "I feel as if the whole house were shaking and on fire."
But the man went out and looked at the bird.
With this the bird dropped the golden chain, and it fell right around the man's neck, so exactly around it that it fit beautifully. Then the man went in and said, "Just look what a beautiful bird that is, and what a beautiful golden chain he has given me, and how nice it looks."
But the woman was terrified. She fell down on the floor in the room, and her cap fell off her head. Then the bird sang once more:
"I wish I were a thousand fathoms beneath the earth, so I would not have to hear that!"
Then the woman fell down as if she were dead.
"Oh," said Marlene, "I too will go out and see if the bird will give me something." Then she went out.
He threw the shoes down to her.
Then she was contented and happy. She put on the new red shoes and danced and leaped into the house. "Oh," she said, "I was so sad when I went out and now I am so contented. That is a splendid bird, he has given me a pair of red shoes."
"No," said the woman, jumping to her feet and with her hair standing up like flames of fire, "I feel as if the world were coming to an end. I too, will go out and see if it makes me feel better."
And as she went out the door, crash! the bird threw the millstone on her head, and it crushed her to death.
The father and Marlene heard it and went out. Smoke, flames, and fire were rising from the place, and when that was over, the little brother was standing there, and he took his father and Marlene by the hand, and all three were very happy, and they went into the house, sat down at the table, and ate.

The Fox and the Cat

The fox, filled with arrogance, examined the cat from head to feet, and  for a long time did not know whether he should give an answer. At last he  said, "Oh, you poor beard-licker, you speckled fool, you hungry mouse  hunter, what are you thinking? Have you the nerve to ask how I am doing?  What do you know? How many tricks do you understand?"
"I understand but one," answered the cat, modestly.
"What kind of a trick is it?" asked the fox.
"When the dogs are chasing me, I can jump into a tree and save myself."
"Is that all?" said the fox. "I am master of a hundred tricks, and in  addition to that I have a sackful of cunning. I feel sorry for you. Come  with me, and I will teach you how one escapes from the dogs."
Just then a hunter came by with four dogs. The cat jumped nimbly up a  tree, and sat down at its top, where the branches and foliage completely  hid her.
"Untie your sack, Mr. Fox, untie your sack," the cat shouted to him,  but the dogs had already seized him, and were holding him fast.
"Oh, Mr. Fox," shouted the cat. "You and your hundred tricks are left  in the lurch. If you been able to climb like I can, you would not have  lost your life."

The Twelve Huntsmen

Then he said to his beloved, "I must now go and leave you. I give you a  ring to remember me by. As soon as I am king, I will return and take you  home with me."
Then he rode away, and when he reached his father, the latter was  mortally ill and near death.
The king said to him, "My dearest son, I wanted to see you one more  time before my end. Promise me to marry the woman of my choice," and he  named a certain princess who was to become his wife.
The son was so grieved that without thinking he said, "Yes, dear  father, your will shall be done."
Then the king closed his eyes and died.
After the son had been proclaimed king, and the period of mourning had  passed, he had to keep the promise that he had given his father. He  proposed marriage to the princess, and she was promised to him.
His first fiance heard about this, and was so saddened by his  faithlessness that she nearly died.
Then her father said to her, "Dearest child, why are you so sad? You  shall have whatever you want."
She thought for a moment and then said, "Dear father, I want eleven  girls exactly like myself in appearance, figure, and size."
The father said, "If it is possible, your wish shall be fulfilled," and  he had his entire kingdom searched until eleven girls were found who were  exactly like his daughter in appearance, figure, and size.
When they came to the princess, she had twelve huntsmen's outfits made,  each one like the others. The eleven girls put on the huntsmen's outfits,  and she herself put on the twelfth outfit.
After this she took leave of her father, and rode away with them. They  rode to the court of her former fianc, whom she loved so dearly.  There she asked if he needed any huntsmen, and if he would take all of  them into his service. The king looked at her without recognizing her.  Because they were such good-looking fellows, he said, yes, that he would  willingly take them, and then they were the king's twelve huntsmen.
Now the king had a lion that was a miraculous animal, for he knew all  hidden and secret things. It happened that one evening the lion said to  the king, "You think that you have twelve huntsmen."
"Yes," said the king, "they are twelve huntsmen."
The lion continued, "You are mistaken. They are twelve girls."
The king said, "That is absolutely not true. How can you prove that to  me?"
"Oh, just have some peas scattered in your antechamber," answered the  lion, "and then you shall soon see. Men have a firm step, and when they  walk over the peas, none of them will be moved. On the other hand, girls  trip and skip and shuffle their feet, rolling the peas about."
The king liked this advise and had peas scattered on the floor.
Now one of the king's servants liked the huntsmen, and when he heard  that they were going to be put to this test, he went to them and told them  everything, saying, "The lion wants to make the king believe that you are  girls."
The princess thanked him, then said to her girls, "Be strong, and step  firmly on the peas."
The next morning the king had the twelve huntsmen called before him.  When they came into the antechamber where the peas were lying, they  stepped so firmly on them, and had such a strong, sure walk, that not one  of the peas rolled or moved.
After they had gone, the king said to the lion, "You lied to me. They  walk just like men."
The lion said, "They knew that were going to be put to a test, and  acted like they were strong. Just have twelve spinning wheels brought into  the antechamber. They will go up to them and admire them. No man would do  that."
The king liked this advice, and he had the spinning wheels set up in  the antechamber.
But the servant who was honest with the huntsmen went to them and told  them about the proposal.
So when they were alone, the princess said to her eleven girls, "Be  strong and do not look around at the spinning wheels."
The next morning when the king had his twelve huntsmen summoned, they  walked through the antechamber without looking at the spinning wheels at  all.
Then the king again said to the lion, "You lied to me. They are men,  for they did not look at the spinning wheels."
The lion answered, "They knew that they were going to be put to a test,  and acted like they were strong."
The king, however, refused to believe the lion anymore.
The twelve huntsmen always accompanied the king hunting, and the longer  he knew them, the better he liked them. Now it happened that once when  they were out hunting, news came that the king's bride was approaching.  When the true bride heard this, it hurt her so much that it almost broke  her heart, and she fainted and fell to the ground.
Thinking that something had happened to his dear huntsman, the king ran  up to him in order to help him. Pulling the huntsman's glove off, he saw  the ring that he had given to his first fiance, and when he looked  into her face, he recognized her. Then his heart was so touched that he  kissed her, and when she opened her eyes he said, "You are mine, and I am  yours, and no one in the world can change that."
He sent a messenger to the other bride, and asked her to return to her  own kingdom, for, as he informed her, he already had a wife, and someone  who had found an old key did not need a new one.
After this their wedding was celebrated, and the lion was accepted back  into favor, because, after all, he had told the truth.

Clever Gretel

Then after returning home, because she was so happy, she would drink a  swallow of wine, and the wine would give her an appetite, so she would  taste the best of what she had cooked, until she was quite full, and then  she would say, "The cook has to know how the food tastes."
One day her master said to her, "Gretel, this evening a guest is  coming. Prepare two chickens for me, the best way that you can."
"Yes indeed, sir," answered Gretel. She killed the chickens, scalded  them, plucked them, stuck them on the spit, and then, as evening  approached, put them over the fire to roast. The chickens began to brown,  and were nearly done, but the guest had not yet arrived.
Gretel called to her master, "If the guest doesn't come, I'll have to  take the chickens from the fire. And it will be a crying shame if they're  not eaten soon, because they're at their juicy best right now."
The master answered, "You're right. I'll run and fetch the guest  myself."
As soon as the master had turned his back, Gretel set the spit and the  chickens aside and thought, "Standing here by the fire has made me sweaty  and thirsty. Who knows when they will be back? Meanwhile I'll just run  down into the cellar and take a swallow."
So she ran down, lifted a jug to her lips, saying, "God bless it for  you, Gretel!" and took a healthy drink. "Wine belongs together," she said  further. "It's not good to keep it apart," and took another healthy drink.
Then she went and placed the chickens over the fire again, basted them  with butter, and cheerfully turned the spit. Because the roasting chickens  smelled so good, she thought, "They could be lacking something. I'd better  taste them!" She tested them with her fingers, and said, "My, these  chickens are good! It's a sin and a shame that they won't be eaten at  once!"
She ran to the window to see if her master and his guest were arriving,  but she saw no one. Returning to the chickens, she said, "That one wing is  burning. I'd better just eat it." So she cut it off and ate it, and it  tasted very good. When she had finished it, she thought, "I'd better eat  the other one too, or the master will see that something is missing."
When both wings had been eaten, she once again looked for her master,  but could not see him. Then it occurred to her, "Who knows? Perhaps  they've gone somewhere else to eat and aren't coming here at all." Then  she said, "Well, Gretel, be of good cheer! The one has already been cut  into. Have another drink and eat the rest of it. When it's gone, you can  relax. Why should this good gift of God go to waste?"
So she ran to the cellar once again, downed a noble drink, and  cheerfully finished off the first chicken. When the one chicken was gone,  and her master still had not yet returned, she looked at the other chicken  and said, "Where the one is, the other should follow. The two belong  together. What is right for the one, can't be wrong for the other. I  believe that if I have another drink, it will do me no harm." So she took  another hearty drink, and sent the second chicken running after the first  one.
Just as she was making the most of it, her master returned, calling  out, "Gretel, hurry up, the guest is right behind me."
"Yes, sir, I'm getting it ready," answered Gretel.
Meanwhile the master saw that the table was set, and he picked up the  large knife that he wanted to carve the chickens with, and stood in the  hallway sharpening it.
The guest arrived and knocked politely on the door. Gretel ran to see  who it was, and when she saw that it was the guest, she held a finger  before her mouth, and said, "Be quiet! Be quiet! Hurry and get away from  here. If my master catches you, you'll be sorry. Yes, he invited you for  an evening meal, but all he really wants is to cut off both of your ears.  Listen, he's sharpening his knife for it right now."
The guest heard the whetting and ran back down the steps as fast as he  could.
Then Gretel, who was not a bit lazy, ran to her master, crying, "Just  what kind of a guest did you invite?"
"Why, Gretel? What do you mean by that?"
"Well," she said, "he took both of the chickens off the platter, just  as I was about to carry them out, and then ran away with them."
"Now that's a fine tune!" said the master, feeling sorry about the loss  of the good chickens. "At the least, he could have left one of them, so I  would have something to eat."
He called out to him to stop, but the guest pretended not to hear. Then  he ran after him, the knife still in his hand, shouting, "Just one! Just  one!" But the guest could only think that he wanted him to give up one of  his ears, so he ran as though there were a fire burning beneath him, in  order to get home with both ears.

The Old Grandfather and His Grandson

His son and his son's wife were disgusted with this, so finally they  made the old grandfather sit in the corner behind the stove, where they  gave him his food in an earthenware bowl, and not enough at that. He sat  there looking sadly at the table, and his eyes grew moist. One day his  shaking hands could not hold the bowl, and it fell to the ground and  broke. The young woman scolded, but he said not a word. He only sobbed.  Then for a few hellers they bought him a wooden bowl and made him eat from  it.
Once when they were all sitting there, the little grandson of four  years pushed some pieces of wood together on the floor.
"What are you making?" asked his father.
"Oh, I'm making a little trough for you and mother to eat from when I'm  big."
The man and the woman looked at one another and then began to cry. They  immediately brought the old grandfather to the table, and always let him  eat there from then on. And if he spilled a little, they did not say a  thing.

The Water Nixie

She gave the girl tangled dirty flax to spin, and she had to fill a  bottomless barrel with water. The boy had to chop down a tree with a dull  ax, and all they got to eat were dumplings as hard as rocks.
Finally the children became so impatient, that they waited until one  Sunday when the nixie was at church, and then ran away. When church was  over, the nixie saw that the birds had flown away, and she followed them  with long strides.
The children saw her from afar, and the girl threw a brush behind her,  which turned into a large brush-mountain with thousands and thousands of  spikes, which the nixie had to climb over with great difficulty, but she  finally got to the other side.
When the children saw this the boy threw a comb behind him, which  turned into a large comb-mountain with a thousand times a thousand teeth,  but the nixie was able to keep hold of them, and finally got to the other  side.
Then the girl threw a mirror behind her, which turned into a glass  mountain, which was so slippery, so slippery that it was impossible for  the nixie to climb over it.
Then she thought, "I will quickly go home and get my ax and chop the  glass mountain in two."
However, by the time she returned and had chopped up the glass  mountain, the children were far away and had escaped, so the water nixie  had to trudge back to her well.

The Death of the Little Hen

The little rooster ran to the well as fast as he could, and said,  "Well, give me some water, for the little hen is lying on Nut Mountain.  She swallowed a large nut kernal and is about to choke to death on  it."
The well answered, "First run to the bride, and get some red silk from  her."
The little rooster ran to the bride: "Bride, give me some red silk, and  I'll give the red silk to the well, and the well will give me some water,  and I'll take the water to the little hen who is lying on Nut Mountain.  She swallowed a large nut kernal and is about to choke to death on  it."
The bride answered, "First run and get my wreath. It got caught on a  willow branch."
So the little rooster ran to the willow and pulled the wreath from its  branch and took it to the bride, and the bride gave him some red silk,  which he took to the well, which gave him some water, and the little  rooster took the water to the little hen, but when he arrived, she had  already choked to death, and she lay there dead, and did not move at  all.
The little rooster was so sad that he cried aloud, and all the animals  came to mourn for the little hen. Six mice built a small carriage which  was to carry the little hen to her grave. When the carriage was finished,  they hitched themselves to it, and the little rooster drove. On the way  they met the fox.
"Where are you going, little rooster?"
"I'm going to bury my little hen."
"May I ride along?"
"Yes, but you must sit at the rear, because my little horses don't like  you too close to the front."
So he sat at the rear, and then the wolf, the bear, the elk, the lion,  and all the animals in the forest. They rode on until they came to a  brook. "How can we get across?" said the little rooster.
A straw was lying there next to the brook, and he said, "I'll lay  myself across, and you can drive over me." But just as the six mice got  onto the straw, it slipped into the water, and the six mice all fell in  and drowned.
They did not know what to do, until a coal came and said, "I am large  enough. I will lay myself across and you can drive over me." So the coal  laid itself across the water, but unfortunately it touched the water,  hissed, and went out; and it was dead.
A stone saw this happen, and wanting to help the little rooster, it  laid itself across the water. The little rooster pulled the carriage  himself. He nearly reached the other side with the dead little hen, but  there were too many others seated on the back of the carriage, and the  carriage rolled back, and they all fell into the water and drowned.
Now the little rooster was all alone with the dead little hen. He dug a  grave for her and laid her inside. Then he made a mound on top, and sat on  it, and grieved there so long that he too died. And then everyone was  dead.

Straw, Coal, and Bean

The straw said, "Dear friends, where do you come from?"
The coal answered, "I jumped from the fireplace, to my good fortune. If  I had not forced my way out, I surely would have died. I would have burned  to ash."
The bean said, "I too saved my skin. If the old woman had gotten me  into the pot I would have been cooked to mush without mercy, just like my  comrades."
"Would my fate have been any better?" said the straw. "The old woman  sent all my brothers up in fire and smoke. She grabbed sixty at once and  killed them. Fortunately I slipped through her fingers."
"What should we do now?" asked the coal.
"Because we have so fortunately escaped death," answered the bean, "I  think that we should join together as comrades. To prevent some new  misfortune from befalling us here, let us together make our way to another  land."
This proposal pleased the other two, and they set forth all together.
They soon came to a small brook, and because there was neither a bridge  nor a walkway there, they did not know how they would get across it.
Then the straw had a good idea, and said, "I will lay myself across it,  and you can walk across me like on a bridge."
So the straw stretched himself from one bank to the other. The coal,  who was a hot-headed fellow, stepped brashly onto the newly constructed  bridge, but when he got to the middle and heard the water rushing beneath  him, he took fright, stopped, and did not dare to go any further. Then the  straw caught fire, broke into two pieces, and fell into the brook. The  coal slid after him, hissed as he fell into the water, and gave up the  ghost.
The bean who had cautiously stayed behind on the bank had to laugh at  the event. He could not stop, and he laughed so fiercely that he burst.  Now he too would have died, but fortunately a wandering tailor was there,  resting near the brook. Having a compassionate heart, he got out a needle  and thread and sewed the bean back together.
The bean thanked him most kindly. However, because he had used black  thread, since that time all beans have had a black seam.

The Singing Bone

Now in this country there lived two brothers, sons of a poor man. They declared that they dared to attempt the task. The older one, who was crafty and shrewd, did so out of pride. The younger one, who was innocent and simple, did so because of his kind heart.
The king said, "In order to be more sure of finding the beast, you should enter the woods from opposite sides."
Thus the older one entered the woods from the west, and the younger one from the east.
After the younger one had walked a little while, a little dwarf stepped up to him. He held a black spear in his hand and said, "I am giving you this spear because your heart is innocent and good. With it you can confidently attack the wild boar. It will do you no harm."
He thanked the dwarf, put the spear on his shoulder, and walked on fearlessly.
Before long he saw the beast. It attacked him, but he held the spear toward it, and in its blind fury it ran into the spear with such force that its heart was slashed in two.
Then he put the monster on his back and turned towards home, intending to take it to the king.
Emerging from the other side of the woods, he came to a house where people were making merry drinking wine and dancing. His older brother was there too. Thinking that the boar would not run away from him any time soon, he had decided to drink himself some real courage. When he saw his younger brother coming out of the woods with his booty, his envious and evil heart gave him no peace.
He called out to him, "Come in, dear brother. Rest and refresh yourself with a beaker of wine."
The younger brother, suspecting no evil, went in and told him about the good dwarf who had given him the spear with which he had killed the boar.
The older brother kept him there until evening, and then they set forth together. After dark they came to a bridge over a brook, and the older brother let the younger one go first. When the younger brother reached the middle above the water, the older one gave him such a blow from behind that he fell down dead.
He buried him beneath the bridge, took the boar, and delivered it to the king, pretending that he had killed it. With this he received the king's daughter in marriage.
When his younger brother did not return he said, "The boar must have ripped him apart," and every one believed it.
But as nothing remains hidden from God, this black deed was also to come to light.
After many long years a shepherd was driving his herd across the bridge and saw a little snow-white bone lying in the sand below. Thinking that it would make a good mouthpiece, he climbed down, picked it up, and then carved out of it a mouthpiece for his horn. When he blew into it for the first time, to his great astonishment the bone began to sing by itself:
"What a wonderful horn," said the shepherd. "It sings by itself. I must take it to the king."
When he brought it before the king, the horn again began to sing its little song. The king understood it well, and had the earth beneath the bridge dug up. Then the whole skeleton of the murdered man came to light.
The wicked brother could not deny the deed. He was sewn into a sack and drowned alive. The murdered man's bones were laid to rest in a beautiful grave in the churchyard.

Hans in Luck

The master answered, "You have served me faithfully and honestly. As the service was, so shall the reward be." And he gave Hans a piece of gold as big as his head. Hans pulled his handkerchief out of his pocket, wrapped up the lump in it, put it on his shoulder, and set out on the way home. As he went on, always putting one leg before the other, he saw a horseman trotting quickly and merrily by on a lively horse.
"Ah," said Hans quite loud, "what a fine thing it is to ride. There you sit as on a chair, never stumbling over a stone, saving your shoes, and making your way without even knowing it."
The rider, who had heard him, stopped and called out, "Hey there, Hans, then why are you going on foot?"
"I must," answered he, "for I have this lump to carry home. It is true that it is gold, but I cannot hold my head straight for it, and it hurts my shoulder."
"I will tell you what," said the rider. "Let's trade. I will give you my horse, and you can give me your lump."
"With all my heart," said Hans. "But I can tell you, you will be dragging along with it."
The rider got down, took the gold, and helped Hans up, then gave him the bridle tight in his hands and said, "If you want to go fast, you must click your tongue and call out, 'jup, jup.'"
Hans was heartily delighted as he sat upon the horse and rode away so bold and free. After a little while he thought that it ought to go faster, and he began to click with his tongue and call out, "jup, jup." The horse started a fast trot, and before Hans knew where he was, he was thrown off and lying in a ditch which separated the fields from the highway. The horse would have escaped if it had not been stopped by a peasant, who was coming along the road and driving a cow before him.
Hans pulled himself together and stood up on his legs again, but he was vexed, and said to the peasant, "It is a poor joke, this riding, especially when one gets hold of a mare like this, that kicks and throws one off, so that one has a chance of breaking one's neck. Never again will I mount it. Now I like your cow, for one can walk quietly behind her, and moreover have one's milk, butter, and cheese every day without fail. What would I not give to have such a cow?"
"Well," said the peasant, "if it would give you so much pleasure, I do not mind trading the cow for the horse." Hans agreed with the greatest delight, and the peasant jumped upon the horse and rode quickly away.
Hans drove his cow quietly before him, and thought over his lucky bargain. "If only I have a morsel of bread -- and that can hardly fail me -- I can eat butter and cheese with it as often as I like. If I am thirsty, I can milk my cow and drink the milk. My goodness, what more can I want?"
When he came to an inn he stopped, and to celebrate his good fortune, he ate up everything he had with him -- his dinner and supper -- and all he had, and with his last few farthings had half a glass of beer. Then he drove his cow onwards in the direction of his mother's village.
As noon approached, the heat grew more oppressive, and Hans found himself upon a moor which would take at least another hour to cross. He felt very hot, and his tongue stuck to the roof of his mouth with thirst. "I can find a cure for this," thought Hans. "I will milk the cow now and refresh myself with the milk." He tied her to a withered tree, and as he had no pail, he put his leather cap underneath, but try as he would, not a drop of milk came. And because he was working in a clumsy way, the impatient beast at last gave him such a blow on his head with its hind foot, that he fell to the ground, and for a long time did not know where he was. By good fortune a butcher just then came along the road with a pushcart, in which lay a young pig.
"What sort of a trick is this?" he cried, and helped good Hans up. Hans told him what had happened.
The butcher gave him his flask and said, "Take a drink and refresh yourself. The cow will certainly give no milk. It is an old beast. At the best it is only fit for the plow, or for the butcher."
"Well, well," said Hans, as he stroked his hair down on his head. "Who would have thought it? Certainly it is a fine thing when one can slaughter a beast like that for oneself. What meat one has! But I do not care much for beef, it is not juicy enough for me. But to have a young pig like that! It tastes quite different, and there are sausages as well."
"Listen, Hans," said the butcher. "To do you a favor, I will trade, and will let you have the pig for the cow."
"God reward you for your kindness," said Hans as he gave up the cow. The pig was unbound from the cart, and the cord by which it was tied was put in his hand. Hans went on, thinking to himself how everything was going just as he wished. If anything troublesome happened to him, it was immediately set right.
Presently he was joined by a lad who was carrying a fine white goose under his arm. They greeted one another, and Hans began to tell of his good luck, and how he had always made such good trades. The boy told him that he was taking the goose to a christening feast. "Just heft her," he added, taking hold of her by the wings. "Feel how heavy she is. She has been fattened up for the last eight weeks. Anyone who bites into her after she has been roasted will have to wipe the fat from both sides of his mouth."
"Yes," said Hans, hefting her with one hand, "she weighs a lot, but my pig is not so bad either."
Meanwhile the lad looked suspiciously from one side to the other, and shook his head. "Look here, he said at last. "It may not be all right with your pig. In the village through which I passed, the mayor himself had just had one stolen out of its sty. I fear -- I fear that you have got hold of it there. They have sent out some people and it would be a bad business if they caught you with the pig. At the very least, you would be shut up in the dark hole.
Good Hans was terrified. "For goodness' sake," he said. "help me out of this fix. You know more about this place than I do. Take my pig and leave me your goose."
"I am taking a risk," answered the lad, "but I do not want to be the cause of your getting into trouble." So he took the cord in his hand, and quickly drove the pig down a bypath. Good Hans, free from care, went homewards with the goose under his arm.
"When I think about it properly," he said to himself, "I have even gained by the trade. First there is the good roast meat, then the quantity of fat which will drip from it, and which will give me goose fat for my bread for a quarter of a year, and lastly the beautiful white feathers. I will have my pillow stuffed with them, and then indeed I shall go to sleep without being rocked. How glad my mother will be!"
As he was going through the last village, there stood a scissors grinder with his cart, as his wheel whirred he sang,
"Yes," answered the scissors grinder, "this trade has a golden foundation. A real grinder is a man who as often as he puts his hand into his pocket finds gold in it. But where did you buy that fine goose?"
"I did not buy it, but traded my pig for it."
"And the pig?"
" I got it for a cow."
"And the cow?"
"I got it for a horse."
"And the horse?"
"For that I gave a lump of gold as big as my head."
"And the gold?"
"Well, that was my wages for seven years' service."
"You have known how to look after yourself each time," said the grinder. "If you can only get on so far as to hear the money jingle in your pocket whenever you stand up, you will have made your fortune."
"How shall I manage that?" said Hans.
"You must become a grinder, as I am. Nothing particular is needed for it but a grindstone. Everything else takes care of itself. I have one here. It is certainly a little worn, but you need not give me anything for it but your goose. Will you do it?"
"How can you ask?" answered Hans. "I shall be the luckiest fellow on earth. If I have money whenever I put my hand in my pocket, why should I ever worry again?" And he handed him the goose and received the grindstone in exchange.
"Now," said the grinder, picking up an ordinary heavy stone that lay nearby, "here is another good stone for you as well, which you can use to hammer on and straighten your old nails. Carry it along with you and take good care of it."
Hans loaded himself with the stones, and went on with a contented heart, his eyes shining with joy. "I must have been born with lucky skin," he cried. "Everything I want happens to me just as if I were a Sunday's child."
Meanwhile, as he had been on his legs since daybreak, he began to feel tired. Hunger also tormented him, for in his joy at the bargain by which he got the cow he had eaten up all his store of food at once. At last he could only go on with great difficulty, and was forced to stop every minute. The stones, too, weighed him down dreadfully, and he could not help thinking how nice it would be if he would not have to carry them just then.
He crept like a snail until he came to a well in a field, where he thought that he would rest and refresh himself with a cool drink of water. In order that he might not damage the stones in sitting down, he laid them carefully by his side on the edge of the well. Then he sat down on it, and was about to bend over and drink, when he slipped, pushed against the stones, and both of them fell into the water. When Hans saw them with his own eyes sinking to the bottom, he jumped for joy, and then knelt down, and with tears in his eyes thanked God for having shown him this favor also, and delivered him in so good a way, and without his having any need to reproach himself, from those heavy stones which had been the only things that troubled him.
"No one under the sun is as fortunate as I am," he cried out. With a light heart and free from every burden he now ran on until he was at home with his mother.

Old Sultan

His wife, who felt pity for the faithful animal, answered, "He has served us so long, and been so faithful, that we might well give him his keep."
"What?" said the man. "You are not very bright.  He doesn't have a tooth left in his mouth, and no thief is afraid of him. He can go now.  If he has served us, he has eaten well for it."
The poor dog, who was lying stretched out in the sun not far off, heard everything, and was sorry that tomorrow was to be his last day.  He had a good friend, the wolf, and he crept out in the evening into the forest to him, and complained of the fate that awaited him.
"Listen, kinsman," said the wolf, "be of good cheer. I will help you out of your trouble.  I have thought of something.  Tomorrow, early in the morning, your master is going with his wife to make hay, and they will take their little child with them, for no one will be left behind in the house. While they are at work they lay the child behind the hedge in the shade. You lie down there too, just as if you wanted to guard it.  Then I will come out of the woods, and carry off the child.  You must run swiftly after me, as if you would take it away from me.  I will let it fall, and you will take it back to its parents, who will think that you have rescued it, and will be far too grateful to do you any harm. On the contrary, you will be treated royally, and they will never let you want for anything again."
This idea pleased the dog, and it was carried out just as planned.  The father screamed when he saw the wolf running across the field with his child, but when Old Sultan brought it back, he was full of joy, and stroked him and said, "Not a hair of yours shall be hurt. You shall eat free bread as long as you live."
And to his wife he said, "Go home at once and make Old Sultan some bread soup that he will not have to bite. And bring the pillow from my bed.  I will give it to him to lie on.  From then on Old Sultan was as well off as he could possibly wish.
Soon afterwards the wolf visited him, and was pleased that everything had succeeded so well.  "But, kinsman," he said, "you will just close one eye if, when I have a chance, I carry off one of your master's fat sheep."
"Don't count on that," answered the dog.  "I will remain true to my master. I cannot agree to that."
The wolf thought that this was not spoken in earnest, and he crept up in the night to take away the sheep. But the farmer, to whom the faithful Sultan had told the wolf's plan, was waiting for him and combed his hair cruelly with a flail. The wolf had to flee, but he cried out to the dog, "Just wait, you scoundrel. You'll regret this."
The next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge the dog to come out into the forest and settle the affair. Old Sultan could find no one to be his second but a cat with only three legs, and as they went out together the poor cat limped along, stretching its tail upward with pain.
The wolf and his friend were already at the appointed place, but when they saw their enemy coming, they thought that he was bringing a saber with him, for they mistook the cat's outstretched tail for one.  And when the poor animal hopped on three legs, they thought that each time it was picking up a stone to throw at them.  Then they took fright. The wild boar crept into the underbrush and the wolf jumped up a tree.
As the dog and the cat approached, they wondered why no one was to be seen.  The wild boar, however, had not been able to hide himself completely in the leaves. His ears were still sticking out.  While the cat was looking cautiously about, the boar wiggled his ears, and the cat, who thought it was a mouse, jumped on it and bit down hard.  The boar jumped up screaming loudly, "The guilty one is up in the tree."
The dog and cat looked up and saw the wolf, who was ashamed for having shown such fear, and who then made peace with the dog.


The Old Grandfather and His Grandson

His son and his son's wife were disgusted with this, so finally they  made the old grandfather sit in the corner behind the stove, where they  gave him his food in an earthenware bowl, and not enough at that. He sat  there looking sadly at the table, and his eyes grew moist. One day his  shaking hands could not hold the bowl, and it fell to the ground and  broke. The young woman scolded, but he said not a word. He only sobbed.  Then for a few hellers they bought him a wooden bowl and made him eat from  it.
Once when they were all sitting there, the little grandson of four  years pushed some pieces of wood together on the floor.
"What are you making?" asked his father.
"Oh, I'm making a little trough for you and mother to eat from when I'm  big."
The man and the woman looked at one another and then began to cry. They  immediately brought the old grandfather to the table, and always let him  eat there from then on. And if he spilled a little, they did not say a  thing.

The Singing, Springing Lark

The oldest one wanted pearls, the second one wanted diamonds, but the third one said, "Father dear, I would like a singing, springing lark."
The father said, "Yes, if I can get it, you shall have it." Then kissing all three, he set forth.
Now when the time had come for him to return home, he had bought pearls and diamonds for the two oldest ones, but he had searched everywhere in vain for a singing, springing lark for the youngest one. This made him very sad, for she was his favorite child.
His path led him through a forest, in the middle of which there was a splendid castle. Near the castle there stood a tree, and at the very top of the tree he saw a singing, springing lark.
"Aha, you are just what I have been looking for," he said happily, then told his servant to climb up and catch the little creature.
But as he approached the tree, a lion jumped up from beneath it, shook himself, and roared until the leaves on the trees trembled. "I will eat up anyone who tries to steal my singing, springing lark!" he cried.
The man said, "I did not know that the bird belongs to you. I will make amends for my wrong and ransom myself with a large sum of money. Just spare my life."
The lion said, "Nothing can save you unless you will promise to give me that which first meets you upon your arrival at home. If you will do that, I will grant you your life, and you shall have the bird for your daughter as well."
The man hesitated, saying, "That could be my youngest daughter. She loves me the most, and always runs to meet me when I return home."
The servant, however, was frightened and said, "Why must it be your daughter that meets you? It could also be a cat or a dog."
Then the man let himself be persuaded, took the singing, springing lark, and promised to give the lion whatever should first meet him at home.
When he reached home and entered his house, the first one who met him was none other than his youngest and dearest daughter. She came running up, kissed and hugged him, and when she saw that he had brought with him a singing, springing lark, she was beside herself with joy.
The father, however, could not be glad, but instead began to cry, saying, "My dearest child, I paid dearly for that little bird. To get it I had to promise you to a wild lion, and when he has you he will tear you to pieces and eat you up." Then he told her everything that had happened, and begged her not to go there, come what may.
But she consoled him, saying, "Dearest father, your promise must be kept. I will go there and appease the lion, so that I can return safely to you."
The next morning she had the way pointed out to her, took leave, and in good spirits walked into the woods.
Now the lion was an enchanted prince. By day he was a lion, and all his people became lions with him, but by night they had their natural human form.
On her arrival she was kindly received and led into the castle. When night came, the lion was a handsome man, and their wedding was celebrated with splendor. They lived happily together, remaining awake by night, and sleeping by day.
One day he came and said, "Tomorrow there will be a feast at your father's house, because your oldest sister is getting married. If you would like to go, my lions will take you."
She said yes, that she would like to see her father again, and she went there, accompanied by the lions.
There was great joy when she arrived, for they all believed that she had been torn to pieces by the lion, and was no longer alive. But she told them what a handsome husband she had, and how well off she was. She stayed until the wedding was over, and then went back into the woods.
When the second daughter got married, and she was again invited to the wedding, she said to the lion, "This time I do not want to be alone. You must come with me."
The lion, however, said that that would be too dangerous for him, for if a ray from a burning light were to fall on him there, he would be transformed into a dove, and would have to fly with doves for seven years.
"Oh," she said, "do come with me. I will protect you, and guard you from all light."
So they went together, taking their little child with them as well.
She had a room built there, so strong and thick that no ray of light could penetrate it. He was to sit inside it when the wedding lights were lit. However, the door was made of green wood which split, leaving a little crack that no one noticed.
The wedding was celebrated with splendor, but when the procession returning from the church with all its torches and lights passed by this room, a ray of light no wider than a hair touched the prince, and he was transformed in an instant. And when she came in looking for him, she did not see him, but a white dove was sitting there.
The dove said to her, "For seven years I must fly about into the world. Every seven steps I will let fall a drop of red blood and a white feather. These will show you the way, and if you follow this trail you can redeem me."
Then the dove flew out the door, and she followed him, and every seven steps a drop of red blood and a little white feather fell down showing her the way.
Thus she went further and further into the wide world. She neither looked aside nor rested. When the seven years were almost past, she rejoiced, thinking that they would soon be redeemed, but they were far from it.
One day when she was thus walking onward, no little feather and no drop of red blood fell, and when she raised her eyes the dove had disappeared.
Then she thought, "Humans cannot help you now," so she climbed up to the sun, and said, "You shine into every crack, and over every peak. Have you not seen a little white dove flying?"
"No," said the sun, "I have not seen it, but I will give you a little chest. Open it if you are in great need."
Then she thanked the sun and went on until evening came and the moon was shining. She then asked the moon, "You shine all night, across all the fields and woods. Have you not seen a little white dove flying?"
"No," said the moon, I have not seen it, but I will give you an egg. Break it open if you are in great need."
Then she thanked the moon and went on until the night wind came up and blew against her. She said to it, "You blow over all the trees and under all the leaves. Have you not seen a little white dove flying."
"No," said the night wind, "I have not seen it, but I will ask the three other winds. Perhaps they have seen it."
The east wind and the west wind came, and had seen nothing, but the south wind said, "I have seen the white dove. It has flown to the Red Sea. There it has become a lion again, for the seven years are over, and the lion is fighting there with a serpent. However, the serpent is an enchanted princess."
Then the night wind said to her, "I will give you some advice. Go to the Red Sea. On the right bank are some tall reeds. Count them, cut off the eleventh one, and strike the serpent with it. Then the lion will be able to subdue it, and both will then regain their human bodies. After that look around and you will see the griffin which lives near the Red Sea. Climb onto its back with your beloved, and the bird will carry you home across the sea. Here is a nut for you. When you are above the middle of the sea, drop the nut. It will immediately sprout upward, and a tall nut tree will grow out of the water, upon which the griffin can rest. If it were not able to rest, it would not be strong enough to carry you across. If you forget to drop the nut, it will let the two of you fall into the sea."
Then she went there, and found everything just as the night wind had said. She counted the reeds by the sea, cut off the eleventh one, struck the serpent with it, and the lion subdued it. Immediately they both regained their human bodies. However, when the princess who had been a serpent was free from the enchantment, she took the youth by the arm, mounted the griffin, and carried him away with her.
There stood the poor girl who had wandered so far and was forsaken again. She sat down and cried. At last, however, she took courage and said, "I will continue on as far as the wind blows and as long as the cock crows, until I find him." And she went on a long, long way, until at last she came to the castle where both of them were living together. There she heard that a feast was to be held soon, at which they were to be married.
She said, "God will still help me," and opened the little chest that the sun had given her. Inside was a dress that glistened like the sun itself. She took it out and put it on, then went up into the castle, where everyone, even the bride herself, looked at her with astonishment.
The bride liked the dress so well that she thought it could be her wedding dress, and she asked if it was for sale.
"Not for money or property," answered the girl, "but for flesh and blood."
The bride asked what she meant by that. She said, "Let me sleep one night in the room where the bridegroom sleeps."
The bride did not want to allow this, but she wanted very much to have the dress, so at last she consented. However, she ordered a servant to give the prince a sleeping-potion.
That night after the youth was already asleep she was led into his room. She sat down on the bed and said, "I have followed you for seven years. I have been to the sun and the moon and the four winds and have asked about you, and I have helped you against the serpent. Will you, then, forget me entirely?"
However, the prince was so sound asleep that it only seemed to him like the wind was rustling outside in the fir trees.
When morning broke she was led out again, and she had to give up the golden dress.
She grew sad because even that had not helped, and she went out into a meadow, and sat down and cried. While she was sitting there she thought of the egg which the moon had given her. She broke it open, and out came  a mother hen with twelve little chicks, all of gold. They ran about peeping, then crept back under the old hen's wings. It was the most beautiful thing to be seen in all the world. Then she got up, and drove them across the meadow before her, until the bride looked out of the window. She liked the little chicks so much that she immediately came down and asked if they were for sale.
"Not for money or property, but for flesh and blood. Let me sleep one more night in the room where the bridegroom sleeps."
The bride said yes, intending to cheat her as she had done the previous evening
However, when the prince went to bed he asked his servant what the murmuring and rustling in the night had been. Then the servant told him everything -- that he had been forced to give him a sleeping-potion because a poor girl secretly had slept in his room, and that he was supposed to give him another sleeping-potion tonight.
The prince said, "Pour the drink out next to the bed."
That night she was again led in, and when she began to relate how sadly she had fared, he immediately recognized his dear wife by her voice, jumped up and cried, "Now I am redeemed for sure. It is as if I had been in a dream, for the strange princess has bewitched me, causing me to forget you. But God has removed the spell from me just in time."
Then they both left the castle secretly in the night, for they feared the princess's father, who was a sorcerer. They mounted the griffin, which carried them across the Red Sea, and when they were half way, she dropped the nut. Immediately a tall nut tree grew up, and the bird rested on it, and then carried them home, where they found their child, who had grown tall and handsome, and from that time they lived happily until they died.

The Goose-Girl

She likewise assigned to her a chambermaid, who was to ride with her, and deliver her into the hands of the bridegroom. Each received a horse for the journey. The princess's horse was called Falada, and could speak. When the hour of departure had come, the old mother went into her bedroom, took a small knife and cut her fingers with it until they bled. Then she held out a small white cloth and let three drops of blood fall into it. She gave them to her daughter, saying, "Take good care of these. They will be of service to you on your way."
Thus they sorrowfully took leave of one another. The princess put the cloth into her bosom, mounted her horse, and set forth for her bridegroom. After they had ridden for a while she felt a burning thirst, and said to her chambermaid, "Dismount, and take my cup which you have brought with you for me, and get me some water from the brook, for I would like a drink."
"If you are thirsty," said the chambermaid, "get off your horse yourself, and lie down near the water and drink. I won't be your servant."
So in her great thirst the princess dismounted, bent down over the water in the brook and drank; and she was not allowed to drink out of the golden cup. Then she said, "Oh, Lord," and the three drops of blood answered, "If your mother knew this, her heart would break in two."
But the king's daughter was humble. She said nothing and mounted her horse again. They rode some miles further. The day was warm, the sun beat down, and she again grew thirsty. When they came to a stream of water, she again called to her chambermaid, "Dismount, and give me some water in my golden cup," for she had long ago forgotten the girl's evil words.
But the chambermaid said still more haughtily, "If you want a drink, get it yourself. I won't be your servant."
Then in her great thirst the king's daughter dismounted, bent over the flowing water, wept, and said, "Oh, Lord," and the drops of blood again replied, "If your mother knew this, her heart would break in two."
As she was thus drinking, leaning over the stream, the cloth with the three drops of blood fell from her bosom and floated away with the water, without her taking notice of it, so great were her concerns. However, the chambermaid what happened, and she rejoiced to think that she now had power over the bride, for by losing the drops of blood, the princess had become weak and powerless.
When she wanted to mount her horse again, the one that was called Falada, the chambermaid said, "I belong on Falada. You belong on my nag," and the princess had to accept it.
Then with many harsh words the chambermaid ordered the princess to take off her own royal clothing and put on the chambermaid's shabby clothes. And in the end the princess had to swear under the open heaven that she would not say one word of this to anyone at the royal court. If she had not taken this oath, she would have been killed on the spot. Falada saw everything, and remembered it well.
The chambermaid now climbed onto Falada, and the true bride onto the bad horse, and thus they traveled onwards, until finally they arrived at the royal palace. There was great rejoicing over their arrival, and the prince ran ahead to meet them, then lifted the chambermaid from her horse, thinking she was his bride.
She was led upstairs, while the real princess was left standing below. Then the old king looked out of the window and saw her waiting in the courtyard, and noticed how fine and delicate and beautiful she was, so at once he went to the royal apartment, and asked the bride about the girl she had with her who was standing down below in the courtyard, and who she was.
"I picked her up on my way for a companion. Give the girl some work to do, so she won't stand idly by."
However, the old king had no work for her, and knew of nothing else to say but, "I have a little boy who tends the geese. She can help him." The boy was called Krdchen (Little Conrad), and the true bride had to help him tend geese.
Soon afterwards the false bride said to the young king, "Dearest husband, I beg you to do me a favor."
He answered, "I will do so gladly."
"Then send for the knacker, and have the head of the horse which I rode here cut off, for it angered me on the way." In truth, she was afraid that the horse might tell how she had behaved toward the king's daughter.
Thus it happened that faithful Falada had to die. The real princess heard about this, and she secretly promised to pay the knacker a piece of gold if he would perform a small service for her. In the town there was a large dark gateway, through which she had to pass with the geese each morning and evening. Would he be so good as to nail Falada's head beneath the gateway, so that she might see him again and again?
The knacker's helper promised to do that, and cut off the head, and nailed it securely beneath the dark gateway.
Early in the morning, when she and Conrad drove out their flock beneath this gateway, she said in passing, "Alas, Falada, hanging there!"
Then the head answered:
Then they went still further out of the town, driving their geese into the country. And when they came to the meadow, she sat down and unbound her hair which was of pure gold. Conrad saw it, was delighted how it glistened, and wanted to pluck out a few hairs. Then she said:
Then such a strong wind came up that it blew Conrad's hat across the fields, and he had to run after it. When he came back, she was already finished combing and putting up her hair, so he could not get even one strand. So Conrad became angry, and would not speak to her, and thus they tended the geese until evening, and then they went home.
The next morning when they were driving the geese out through the dark gateway, the maiden said, "Alas, Falada, hanging there!"
Falada answered:
She sat down again in the field and began combing out her hair. When Conrad ran up and tried to take hold of some, she quickly said:
Then the wind blew, taking the hat off his head and far away. Conrad had to run after it, and when he came back, she had already put up her hair, and he could not get a single strand. Then they tended the geese until evening.
That evening, after they had returned home, Conrad went to the old king and said, "I won't tend geese with that girl any longer."
"Why not?" asked the old king.
"Oh, because she angers me all day long."
Then the old king ordered him to tell what it was that she did to him. Conrad said, "In the morning when we pass beneath the dark gateway with the flock, there is a horse's head on the wall, and she says to it, 'Alas, Falada, hanging there!' And the head replies:
Then Conrad went on to tell what happened at the goose pasture, and how he had to chase his hat.
The old king ordered him to drive his flock out again the next day. As soon as morning came, he himself sat down behind the dark gateway, and heard how the girl spoke with Falada's head. Then he followed her out into the country and hid himself in a thicket in the meadow. There he soon saw with his own eyes the goose-girl and the goose-boy bringing their flock, and how after a while she sat down and took down her hair, which glistened brightly. Soon she said:
Then came a blast of wind and carried off Conrad's hat, so that he had to run far away, while the maiden quietly went on combing and braiding her hair, all of which the king observed. Then, quite unseen, he went away, and when the goose-girl came home in the evening, he called her aside, and asked why she did all these things.
"I am not allowed to tell you, nor can I reveal my sorrows to any human being, for I have sworn under the open heaven not to do so, and if I had not so sworn, I would have been killed."
He urged her and left her no peace, but he could get nothing from her. Finally he said, "If you will not tell me anything, then tell your sorrows to the iron stove there," and he went away.
So she crept into the iron stove, and began to cry sorrowfully, pouring out her whole heart. She said, "Here I sit, abandoned by the whole world, although I am the daughter of a king. A false chambermaid forced me to take off my royal clothes, and she has taken my place with my bridegroom. Now I have to do common work as a goose-girl. If my mother this, her heart would break in two."
The old king was standing outside listening by the stovepipe, and he heard what she said. Then he came back inside, and asked her to come out of the stove. Then they dressed her in royal clothes, and it was marvelous how beautiful she was.
The old king summoned his son and revealed to him that he had a false bride who was only a chambermaid, but that the true one was standing there, the one who had been a goose-girl. The young king rejoiced with all his heart when he saw her beauty and virtue. A great feast was made ready to which all the people and all good friends were invited.
At the head of the table sat the bridegroom with the king's daughter on one side of him, and the chambermaid on the other. However, the chambermaid was deceived, for she did not recognize the princess in her dazzling attire. After they had eaten and drunk, and were in a good mood, the old king asked the chambermaid as a riddle, what punishment a person deserved who had deceived her master in such and such a manner, then told the whole story, asking finally, "What sentence does such a person deserve?"
The false bride said, "She deserves no better fate than to be stripped stark naked, and put in a barrel that is studded inside with sharp nails. Two white horses should be hitched to it, and they should drag her along through one street after another, until she is dead."
"You are the one," said the old king, "and you have pronounced your own sentence. Thus shall it be done to you."
After the sentence had been carried out, the young king married his true bride, and both of them ruled over their kingdom in peace and happiness.

The Young Giant

While he was sitting there a large giant came over the mountain towards them.  "Do you see that bogeyman?" said the father, in order to frighten the little one into being good.  "He's coming to get you."
Now with his long legs the giant reached the furrow in only a few steps. With two fingers he carefully picked up the little thumbling, looked at him, then walked away with him without saying a word.  The father stood there so frightened that he could not utter a sound.  He believed that his child was lost, and that he would never see him again as long as he lived.
The giant took the child home and let him suckle at his breast, and the thumbling grew large and strong like a giant.  After two years had passed, the old giant took him into the woods in order to test him.
He said, "Pull out a switch from over there."  The boy was so strong already that he pulled a young tree up by the roots.  The giant thought that he could do better and took him back home and suckled him for two more years.  When he took him into the woods to test him this time, he was so much stronger that he was able to pull up an old tree.
This was still not good enough for the giant, and he suckled him for yet another two years, took him into the woods, and said, "Now pull out a decent switch for once."  This time the boy pulled the thickest oak tree out of the ground.  When it cracked the boy laughed.
When the old giant saw this, he said, "That's good enough.  You've passed the test."  And he took him back to the field where he found him.
The father was plowing again, and the young giant walked up to him and said, "Father, see what a man your son has become."
The peasant was frightened and said, "No, you are not my son.  I don't want you. Get away from me."
"Of course I am your son.  Just let me plow.  I can do it just as well as you can, even better."
"No, you are not my son.  You can't plow.  Get away from me."  He was so afraid of the large man that he let go of the plow and walked to the edge of the field.  The boy picked up the handle to plow, but he pushed so hard with his one hand that the plow sank deep into the earth.  The peasant could not watch this, and called to him, "If you insist on plowing, then don't push down so hard, or you will ruin the field."
Then the boy unhitched the horses and pulled the plow himself, saying, "Go on home and tell mother that she should cook up a big plate of something to eat.  In the meantime, I'll tear around the field."
The peasant went home and told his wife to fix something to eat, and she cooked up a large dinner, and the boy plowed the field:  two full acres all by himself.  Then he hitched himself to the harrow and harrowed the entire thing, pulling two harrows at the same time.  When he was finished he went into the woods, pulled up two oak trees, laid them on his shoulders, then put a harrow on each end and a horse on each end as well, and carried the whole thing to his parents' home like a bundle of straw.
When he walked into the farmyard, his mother did not recognize him and asked, "Who is this terrible large man?"
The peasant said, "That is our son."
She said, "No, this could never be our son.  We did not have such a large child.  Ours was a little thing.  Go away.  We don't want you."
The boy said nothing.  He pulled his horses into the stall, gave them oats and hay, and put everything in order.  When he was finished he went into the house, sat down on the bench, and said, "Mother, I'd like to eat.  Will it be ready soon?"
She said, "Yes," and did not dare to contradict him.  She brought in two very large plates, more than she and her husband could have eaten in an entire week.  He ate it all and asked if they didn't have more.  "No," she said.  "That's all that we have."
"That was only a taste.  I have to have more."
Not daring to contradict him, she went out and filled a large hog cauldron and put it on the fire, and when it was done she brought it in.
"That's a nice little bit," he said, and ate the whole thing, but it still wasn't enough to satisfy his hunger.  Then he said, "Father, I see that I'll never be full if I stay here with you.  If you can get me an iron rod that is so strong I can't break it against my knees, then I'll go away again."
The peasant was happy to hear this.  He hitched his two horses to his wagon and drove to the blacksmith and got a rod so large and thick that the two horses could barely pull it.  The boy held it against his knees and -- crash! -- he broke it in two like a bean pole, and threw it away.  Then the peasant hitched up four horses and brought back a rod that was so large and thick that the four horses could barely pull it.
The son picked up this one as well, cracked it in two against his knee, tossed it aside, and said, "Father, this one is of no use to me.  Hitch up more horses and get me a stronger staff."  So the father hitched up eight horses and fetched one so large and thick that the eight horses could barely pull it.  When the son received this one, he broke a little piece from the top of it and said, "Father, I see that you can't get me a proper staff, so I'll just go away anyhow."
So he went on his way, claiming to be a journeyman blacksmith.  He came to a village where a smith lived who was a real cheapskate.  He would never give anything to anyone, and always wanted everything for himself.  The young giant walked into his smithy and asked him if he could use a journeyman.
"Yes," answered the smith, looking at him and thinking what a strong fellow he was, someone who could really earn his keep.  "What kind of wages do you want?"
"I don't want any wages at all," said the young giant.  "But at the end of every two weeks when the other journeymen receive their pay, just let me hit you twice.  And you'll have to be able to take it."
The cheapskate was only too happy with this arrangement, for he thought that it would save him a lot of money.
The next morning the new journeyman was to have the first turn at the anvil.  The master brought out a glowing rod, and the young giant knocked it into two pieces with his first blow, at the same time driving the anvil so deep into the ground that they could not get it back out again.  This made the cheapskate angry, and he said, "I can't use you here.  Your blows are too rough.  What do you need for pay?"
The young giant said, "Just to give you a little kick, nothing more."  He lifted up his foot and gave him a kick that sent him flying over four loads of hay.  Then he took the thickest iron rod from the smithy to use as a walking stick, and went on his way.
Sometime later he came to an estate and asked the overseer if he could use a chief farmhand.
"Yes," said the overseer.  "You look like a strong fellow who knows how to work.  What kind of yearly wage do you want."
The young giant replied that the only pay he wanted was to be able to give the overseer three blows, and that he would have to be able to stand them.  The overseer was satisfied with this, for he too was a cheapskate.
The next morning the workers were supposed to go to work in the woods.  The others were already up, but the young giant was still lying in bed.  One of them shouted to him, "Get up now.  It's time to go to the woods, and you have to come along too."
He replied, coarsely and sarcastically, "Go on without me.  I'll be finished before any of you."
The others reported to the overseer that the new chief farmhand was still lying in bed and would not go to the woods with them.  The overseer told them to wake him up again and tell him to harness the horses.
The young giant answered the same as before, "Go on without me.  I'll be finished before any of you."  He slept two more hours, then finally got out of bed, got two shovels full of peas from the barn, cooked them, ate them at his leisure, and when he had finished all this, he harnessed the horses and drove them to the woods.  Just before the woods, the road passed through a hollow.  He drove his wagon through the hollow, then halted the horses. He walked behind the wagon and piled up such a stack of trees and branches that no horse would ever be able to get through.
He had just arrived in the woods when he met the others on their way home with their loaded wagons.  He said to them, "Drive on.  I'll be home before you are."
He drove a little further into the woods, ripped two of the largest trees out of the ground, loaded them onto his wagon, and turned around.  When he came to the pile of trees and branches, the others were just standing there, unable to get through.
He said, "See, if you had stayed with me, you could have gone straight home, and you'd be able to sleep an extra hour."
He started to drive through, but his horses couldn't make it, so he unhitched them and loaded them on top of the wagon. Then he took hold of the tongue and pulled the wagon through as easily as if it had been loaded with feathers.  When he was on the other side \ he called out, "See, I got through before you did," and he drove off, leaving them standing there.  When he arrived at the farmyard he picked up a tree with one hand, showed it to the overseer, and said, "How is this for a measuring stick?"
Then the overseer said to his wife, "This chief farmhand is all right.  Even when he sleeps in, he arrives home before the others."
He worked for the overseer for one year.  When the year had passed and the other workers received their wages, he said that it was also time for his payment.  The overseer became frightened that he was going to have to receive his blows, and he asked him to spare him.  If he would do so, the overseer himself would become chief farmhand, and the young giant could become overseer.
"No," replied the young giant.  "I do not want to be overseer.  I am chief farmhand and will remain chief farmhand.  I only want to deliver what was promised me."
The overseer offered to give him anything that he asked for, but there was no way out.  The chief farmhand insisted on the original agreement.
The overseer did not know what else to do, so he asked for an extension of two weeks, and then called all of his clerks together and asked for their advice.  They thought for a long time, and finally concluded that no one was safe in the presence of the chief farmhand. He could strike a person dead just like one would crush a mosquito.
He should be told to climb into the well to clean it. Then they would roll the large millstones that were lying nearby into the well onto his head. After that he would never again see the light of day.
The overseer was delighted with this plan, and the chief farmhand agreed to climb into the well.   As soon as he was at the bottom of the well, they rolled the largest millstone, in on top of him.  Everyone thought that they had crushed his head, but he called out, "Chase the chickens away from the well.  They are scratching in the sand, and throwing little grains into my eyes until I can't see."
The overseer called out, "Shoo!  Shoo!" as though he were chasing the chickens away.  When the chief farmhand was finished, he climbed out and said, "Look at this nice necklace."  He was wearing the millstone around his neck.
The chief farmhand wanted to collect his wages now, but the overseer asked for another extension of fourteen days. He summoned the clerks, and they advised him to send the farmhand to the haunted mill to grind grain during the night. No human had ever come from there alive. This advice pleased the overseer, and that same evening he summoned the farmhand and told him to haul eight bushels of grain to the mill and to grind it during the night.  They were in need of the flour.
So the chief farmhand went to the loft and put two bushels of grain in his right pocket and two in his left pocket. Then he loaded four bushels of grain into a large sack which he carried over his shoulder. He took all this to the haunted mill.
The miller told him that during the daytime he could grind the grain very well, but at nighttime the mill was haunted and anyone who went inside during the night was found dead the next morning.
The farmhand said, "I will do all right. Just leave me alone and go to bed now."
Then he went inside the mill and dumped out the grain. When it began to strike eleven he went into the sitting area and sat on a bench. He had just eaten a little when the door opened and a large table came inside. On the table were wine, roasted meat, and many good things to eat. Everything was by itself; no one had carried it in. Then the chairs moved themselves into place, but no person was there. Then suddenly he saw fingers handling the knives and forks and placing food onto the plates, but he could see nothing else. He was hungry, and he could see food, so he sat down and ate alongside the unseen ones, and everything tasted very good. When he was full, and the others had cleaned off their plates as well, suddenly all the lights were blown out. He heard this very distinctly.
Sitting there in total darkness, something gave him a slap in the face.
He said, "If you do that again, I'll give the same thing back to you."
He received a second slap, and he struck back. Thus it continued the entire night, but he was never afraid, always striking back fiercely. At daybreak everything ceased.
When the miller got up, he looked in on the farmhand to see how he was, and was amazed to see that he was still alive.
The farmhand said, "I received some slaps, but I also gave out some slaps, and had plenty to eat."
The miller was delighted and said that the mill was now freed of its curse, and he offered him a large sum of money as a reward.
But the farmhand said, "I don't want any money; I have enough."
Then he loaded his flour onto his back and returned home. He told the overseer he had completed the task and now wanted the wages that they had agreed upon.
The overseer was beside himself with fear. Not knowing what else to do, he walked back and forth in his room until sweat dripped from his face. He opened the window for some fresh air.  Before he knew what had happened, the young giant kicked him from behind.  He flew so far through the air, that no one has seen him since.
Then the young giant turned to the overseer's wife and said that she would have to receive the next blow.  "No, I'd never be able to withstand it," she said, and opened a window, because of the sweat dripping from her face.  He gave her a kick as well, and being lighter, she flew even higher than her husband.
"Come to me," he called to her.
"No, you come to me," she called back.  "I can't come to you."
And they soared through the air, neither of them able to get to the other one.  I do not know if they are still soaring.  But as for the young giant, he picked up his iron rod and went on his way.


The Fisherman and His Wife

"Well," said the man, "there's no need to say more. I can certainly let a  fish swim away who knows how to talk."
With that he put it back into the clear water, and the flounder  disappeared to the bottom, leaving a long trail of blood behind him.
Then the fisherman got up and went home to his wife in the filthy shack.
"Husband," said the woman, "didn't you catch anything today?"
"No," said the man. "I caught a flounder, but he told me that he was an  enchanted prince, so I let him swim away."
"Didn't you ask for anything first?" said the woman.
"No," said the man. "What should I have asked for?"
"Oh," said the woman. "It is terrible living in this shack. It stinks and  is filthy. You should have asked for a little cottage for us. Go back and  call him. Tell him that we want to have a little cottage. He will surely  give it to us."
"Oh," said the man. "Why should I go back there?"
"Look," said the woman, "you did catch him, and then you let him swim  away. He will surely do this for us. Go right now."
The man did not want to go, but neither did he want to oppose his wife, so  he went back to the sea.
When he arrived there it was no longer clear, but yellow and green. He  stood there and said:
"Oh," said the man, "I did catch you, and now my wife says that I really  should have asked for something. She doesn't want to live in a filthy  shack any longer. She would like to have a cottage."
"Go home," said the flounder. "She already has it."
The man went home, and his wife was standing in the door of a cottage, and  she said to him, "Come in. See, now isn't this much better?"
There was a little front yard, and a beautiful little parlor, and a  bedroom where their bed was standing, and a kitchen, and a dining room.  Everything was beautifully furnished and supplied with tin and brass  utensils, just as it should be. And outside there was a little yard with  chickens and ducks and a garden with vegetables and fruit.
"Look," said the woman. "Isn't this nice?"
"Yes," said the man. "This is quite enough. We can live here very well."
"We will think about that," said the woman.
Then they ate something and went to bed.
Everything went well for a week or two, and then the woman said, "Listen,  husband. This cottage is too small. The yard and the garden are too  little. The flounder could have given us a larger house. I would like to  live in a large stone palace. Go back to the flounder and tell him to give  us a palace."
"Oh, wife," said the man, "the cottage is good enough. Why would we want  to live in a palace?"
"I know why," said the woman. "Now you just go. The flounder can do that."
"Now, wife, the flounder has just given us the cottage. I don't want to go  back so soon. It may make the flounder angry."
"Just go," said the woman. "He can do it, and he won't mind doing it. Just  go."
The man's heart was heavy, and he did not want to go. He said to himself,  "This is not right," but he went anyway.
When he arrived at the sea the water was purple and dark blue and gray and  dense, and no longer green and yellow. He stood there and said:
"Oh," said the man sadly, "my wife wants to live in a stone palace."
"Go home. She's already standing before the door," said the flounder.
Then the man went his way, thinking he was going home, but when he  arrived, standing there was a large stone palace. His wife was standing on  the stairway, about to enter.
Taking him by the hand, she said, "Come inside."
He went inside with her. Inside the palace there was a large front hallway  with a marble floor. Numerous servants opened up the large doors for them.  The walls were all white and covered with beautiful tapestry. In the rooms  there were chairs and tables of pure gold. Crystal chandeliers hung from  the ceilings. The rooms and chambers all had carpets. Food and the very  best wine overloaded the tables until they almost collapsed. Outside the  house there was a large courtyard with the very best carriages and stalls  for horses and cows. Furthermore there was a magnificent garden with the  most beautiful flowers and fine fruit trees and a pleasure forest a good  half mile long, with elk and deer and hares and everything that anyone  could possibly want.
"Now," said the woman, "isn't this nice?"
"Oh, yes" said the man. "This is quite enough. We can live in this  beautiful palace and be satisfied."
"We'll think about it," said the woman. "Let's sleep on it." And with that  they went to bed.
The next morning the woman woke up first. It was just daylight, and from  her bed she could see the magnificent landscape before her. Her husband  was just starting to stir when she poked him in the side with her elbow  and said, "Husband, get up and look out the window. Look, couldn't we be  king over all this land?"
"Oh, wife," said the man, "why would we want to be king? I don't want to  be king."
"Well," said the woman, "even if you don't want to be king, I want to be  king."
"Oh, wife," said the man, "why do you want to be king? I don't want to  tell him that."
"Why not?" said the woman, "Go there immediately. I must be king."
So the man, saddened because his wife wanted to be king, went back.
"This is not right, not right at all," thought the man. He did not want to  go, but he went anyway.
When he arrived at the sea it was dark gray, and the water heaved up from  below and had a foul smell. He stood there and said:
"Oh," said the man, "she wants to be king."
"Go home. She is already king," said the flounder.
Then the man went home, and when he arrived there, the palace had become  much larger, with a tall tower and magnificent decorations. Sentries stood  outside the door, and there were so many soldiers, and drums, and  trumpets. When he went inside everything was of pure marble and gold with  velvet covers and large golden tassels. Then the doors to the great hall  opened up, and there was the entire court. His wife was sitting on a high  throne of gold and diamonds. She was wearing a large golden crown, and in  her hand was a scepter of pure gold and precious stones. On either side of  her there stood a line of maids-in-waiting, each one a head shorter than  the other.
"Oh, wife, are you now king?"
"Yes," she said, "now I am king."
He stood and looked at her, and after thus looking at her for a while he  said, "Wife, it is very nice that you are king. Now we don't have to wish  for anything else."
"No, husband," she said, becoming restless. "Time is on my hands. I cannot  stand it any longer. Go to the flounder. I am king, but now I must become  emperor."
"Oh, wife" said the man, "Why do you want to become emperor?"
"Husband," she said, "go to the flounder. I want to be emperor."
"Oh, wife," said the man, "he cannot make you emperor. I cannot tell the  flounder to do that. There is only one emperor in the realm. The flounder  cannot make you emperor. He cannot do that."
"What!" said the woman. "I am king, and you are my husband. Are you going?  Go there immediately. If he can make me king then he can make me emperor.  I want to be and have to be emperor. Go there immediately."
So he had to go. As he went on his way the frightened man thought to  himself, "This is not going to end well. To ask to be emperor is shameful.  The flounder is going to get tired of this."
With that he arrived at the sea. The water was all black and dense and  boiling up from within. A strong wind blew over him that curdled the  water. He stood there and said:
"Oh, flounder," he said, "my wife wants to become emperor."
"Go home," said the flounder. "She is already emperor."
Then the man went home, and when he arrived there, the entire palace was  made of polished marble with alabaster statues and golden decoration.  Soldiers were marching outside the gate, blowing trumpets and beating  tympani and drums. Inside the house, barons and counts and dukes were  walking around like servants. They opened the doors for him, which were  made of pure gold. He went inside where his wife was sitting on a throne  made of one piece of gold a good two miles high, and she was wearing a  large golden crown that was three yards high, all set with diamonds and  carbuncles. In the one hand she had a scepter, and in the other the  imperial orb. Bodyguards were standing in two rows at her sides: each one  smaller than the other, beginning with the largest giant and ending with  the littlest dwarf, who was no larger than my little finger. Many princes  and dukes were standing in front of her.
The man went and stood among them and said, "Wife, are you emperor now?"
"Yes," she said, "I am emperor."
He stood and looked at her, and after thus looking at her for a while, he  said, "Wife, it is very nice that you are emperor."
"Husband," she said. "Why are you standing there? Now that I am emperor,  and I want to become pope."
"Oh, wife!" said the man. "What do you not want? There is only one pope in  all Christendom. He cannot make you pope."
"Husband," she said, "I want to become pope. Go there immediately. I must  become pope this very day."
"No, wife," he said, "I cannot tell him that. It will come to no good.  That is too much. The flounder cannot make you pope."
"Husband, what nonsense!" said the woman. "If he can make me emperor, then  he can make me pope as well. Go there immediately. I am emperor, and you  are my husband. Are you going?"
Then the frightened man went. He felt sick all over, and his knees and  legs were shaking, and the wind was blowing over the land, and clouds flew  by as the darkness of evening fell. Leaves blew from the trees, and the  water roared and boiled as it crashed onto the shore. In the distance he  could see ships, shooting distress signals as they tossed and turned on  the waves. There was a little blue in the middle of the sky, but on all  sides it had turned red, as in a terrible lightning storm. Full of despair  he stood there and said:
"Oh," said the man, "she wants to become pope."
"Go home," said the flounder. "She is already pope."
Then he went home, and when he arrived there, there was a large church  surrounded by nothing but palaces. He forced his way through the crowd.  Inside everything was illuminated with thousands and thousands of lights,  and his wife was clothed in pure gold and sitting on a much higher throne.  She was wearing three large golden crowns. She was surrounded with  church-like splendor, and at her sides there were two banks of candles.  The largest was as thick and as tall as the largest tower, down to the  smallest kitchen candle. And all the emperors and kings were kneeling  before her kissing her slipper.
"Wife," said the man, giving her a good look, "are you pope now?"
"Yes," she said, "I am pope."
Then he stood there looking at her, and it was as if he were looking into  the bright sun. After he had looked at her for a while he said, "Wife, It  is good that you are pope!"
She stood there as stiff as a tree, neither stirring nor moving.
Then he said, "Wife, be satisfied now that you are pope. There is nothing  else that you can become."
"I have to think about that," said the woman.
Then they both went to bed, but she was not satisfied. Her desires would  not let her sleep. She kept thinking what she wanted to become next.
The man slept well and soundly, for he had run about a lot during the day,  but the woman could not sleep at all, but tossed and turned from one side  to the other all night long, always thinking about what she could become,  but she could not think of anything.
Then the sun was about to rise, and when she saw the early light of dawn  she sat up in bed and watched through the window as the sun came up.
"Aha," she thought. "Could not I cause the sun and the moon to rise?"
"Husband," she said, poking him in the ribs with her elbow, "wake up and  go back to the flounder. I want to become like God."
The man, who was still mostly asleep, was so startled that he fell out of  bed. He thought that he had misunderstood her, so, rubbing his eyes, he  said, "Wife, what did you say?"
"Husband," she said, "I cannot stand it when I see the sun and the moon  rising, and I cannot cause them to do so. I will not have a single hour of  peace until I myself can cause them to rise."
She looked at him so gruesomely that he shuddered.
"Go there immediately. I want to become like God."
"Oh, wife," said the man, falling on his knees before her, "the flounder  cannot do that. He can make you emperor and pope, but I beg you, be  satisfied and remain pope."
Anger fell over her. Her hair flew wildly about her head. Tearing open her  bodice she kicked him with her foot and shouted, "I cannot stand it! I  cannot stand it any longer! Go there immediately!"
He put on his trousers and ran off like a madman.
Outside such a storm was raging that he could hardly stand on his feet.  Houses and trees were blowing over. The mountains were shaking, and  boulders were rolling from the cliffs into the sea. The sky was as black  as pitch. There was thunder and lightning. In the sea there were great  black waves as high as church towers and mountains, all capped with crowns  of white foam.
"Oh," he said, "she wants to become like God."
"Go home. She is sitting in her filthy shack again."
And they are sitting there even today.


The Elves

One evening shortly before Christmas, just before going to bed, and having  already cut out a number of shoes, he said to his wife, "Why don't we stay  up tonight and see who is giving us this helping hand."
His wife agreed to this and lit a candle. Then they hid themselves behind  some clothes that were hanging in a corner of the room. At midnight two  cute little naked men appeared. Sitting down at the workbench, they picked  up the cut-out pieces and worked so unbelievable quickly and nimbly that  the amazed shoemaker could not take his eyes from them. They did not stop  until they had finished everything. They placed the completed shoes on the  workbench, then quickly ran away.
The next morning the wife said, "The little men have made us wealthy. We  must show them our thanks. They are running around with nothing on,  freezing. Do you know what? I want to sew some shirts, jackets,  undershirts, and trousers for them, and knit a pair of stockings for each  of them, and you should make a pair of shoes for each of them."
The husband said, "I agree," and that evening, when everything was  finished, they set the presents out instead of the unfinished work. Then  they hid themselves in order to see what the little men would do. At  midnight they came skipping up, intending to start work immediately. When  they saw the little clothes instead of the cut-out leather, they at first  seemed puzzled, but then delighted. They quickly put them on, then  stroking the beautiful clothes on their bodies they sang:

Then they hopped and danced about, jumping over chairs and benches.  Finally they danced out of the house. They never returned, but the  shoemaker prospered, succeeding in everything that he did.


At first the girl did not know what she should do, but finally they  convinced her to accept. It would not be right, they said, to decline such  an invitation.
Three elves came and led her to a hollow mountain where the little people  lived. Everything there was small, but more ornate and splendid than can  be described. The new mother was lying in a bed of ebony decorated with  pearl buttons. The covers were embroidered with gold. The cradle was made  of ivory, and the bathtub of gold. The girl stood in as godmother, and  then wanted to go back home, but the elves asked her fervently to stay  with them for three days. She agreed to do so, and the time passed   pleasantly and joyfully. The little people did everything to make her  happy.
Finally she wanted to return home. They filled her pockets with gold and  led her outside the mountain. She arrived home. Wanting to begin her work,  she picked up the broom that was still standing in the corner and started  to sweep. Then some strange people came out of the house and asked her who  she was and what she was doing there. It was not three days, as she  thought, that she had spent in the mountain with the little men, but  rather seven years. In the meantime her former employers had died.



And he began laughing about it. When he laughed, a band of little elves  suddenly appeared. They brought the rightful child, set it on the hearth,  and took the changeling away.

The Six Swans

"Oh, yes, your majesty," she answered, "I can indeed. However, there is  one condition, and if you do not fulfill it, you will never get out of  these woods, and will die here of hunger."
"What sort of condition is it?" asked the king.
"I have a daughter," said the old woman, "who is as beautiful as anyone  you could find in all the world, and who well deserves to become your  wife. If you will make her your queen, I will show you the way out of the  woods."
The king was so frightened that he consented, and the old woman led him to  her cottage, where her daughter was sitting by the fire. She received the  king as if she had been expecting him. He saw that she was very beautiful,  but in spite of this he did not like her, and he could not look at her  without secretly shuddering.
After he had lifted the girl onto his horse, the old woman showed him the  way, and the king arrived again at his royal castle, where the wedding was  celebrated.
The king had been married before, and by his first wife he had seven  children, six boys and one girl. He loved them more than anything else in  the world.
Fearing that the stepmother might not treat them well, even do them harm,  he took them to a secluded castle which stood in the middle of a forest.  It was so well hidden, and the way was so difficult to find, that he  himself would not have found it, if a wise woman had not given him a ball  of magic yarn. Whenever he threw it down in front of him, it would unwind  itself and show him the way.
However, the king went out to his dear children so often that the queen  took notice of his absence. She was curious and wanted to know what he was  doing out there all alone in the woods. She gave a large sum of money to  his servants, and they revealed the secret to her. They also told her  about the ball of yarn which could point out the way all by itself.
She did not rest until she discovered where the king kept the ball of  yarn. Then she made some little shirts of white silk. Having learned the  art of witchcraft from her mother, she sewed a magic charm into each one  of them. Then one day when the king had ridden out hunting, she took the  little shirts and went into the woods. The ball of yarn showed her the  way.
The children, seeing that someone was approaching from afar, thought that  their dear father was coming to them. Full of joy, they ran to meet him.  Then she threw one of the shirts over each of them, and when the shirts  touched their bodies they were transformed into swans, and they flew away  over the woods.
The queen went home very pleased, believing that she had gotten rid of her  stepchildren. However, the girl had not run out with her brothers, and the  queen knew nothing about her.
The next day the king went to visit his children, but he found no one  there but the girl.
"Where are your brothers?" asked the king.
"Oh, dear father," she answered, "they have gone away and left me alone."
Then she told him that from her window she had seen how her brothers had  flown away over the woods as swans. She showed him the feathers that they  had dropped into the courtyard, and which she had gathered up.
The king mourned, but he did not think that the queen had done this wicked  deed. Fearing that the girl would be stolen away from him as well, he  wanted to take her away with him, but she was afraid of her stepmother and  begged the king to let her stay just this one more night in the castle in  the woods.
The poor girl thought, "I can no longer stay here. I will go and look for  my brothers."
And when night came she ran away and went straight into the woods. She  walked the whole night long without stopping, and the next day as well,  until she was too tired to walk any further.
Then she saw a hunter's hut and went inside. She found a room with six  little beds, but she did not dare to get into one of them. Instead she  crawled under one of them and lay down on the hard ground where she  intended to spend the night.
The sun was about to go down when she heard a rushing sound and saw six  swans fly in through the window. Landing on the floor, they  blew on one  another, and blew all their feathers off. Then their swan-skins came off  just like shirts. The girl looked at them and recognized her brothers. She  was happy and crawled out from beneath the bed. The brothers were no less  happy to see their little sister, but their happiness did not last long.
"You cannot stay here," they said to her. "This is a robbers' den. If they  come home and find you, they will murder you."
"Can't you protect me?" asked the little sister.
"No," they answered. "We can take off our swan-skins for only a quarter  hour each evening. Only during that time do we have our human forms. After  that we are again transformed into swans."
Crying, the little sister said, "Can you not be redeemed?"
"Alas, no," they answered. "The conditions are too difficult. You would  not be allowed to speak or to laugh for six years, and in that time you  would have to sew together six little shirts from asters for us. And if a  single word were to come from your mouth, all your work would be lost."
After the brothers had said this, the quarter hour was over, and they flew  out the window again as swans.
Nevertheless, the girl firmly resolved to redeem her brothers, even if it  should cost her her life. She left the hunter's hut, went to the middle of  the woods, seated herself in a tree, and there spent the night. The next  morning she went out and gathered asters and began to sew. She could not  speak with anyone, and she had no desire to laugh. She sat there, looking  only at her work.
After she had already spent a long time there it happened that the king of  the land was hunting in these woods. His huntsmen came to the tree where  the girl was sitting.
They called to her, saying, "Who are you?" But she did not answer.
"Come down to us," they said. "We will not harm you."
She only shook her head. When they pressed her further with questions, she  threw her golden necklace down to them, thinking that this would satisfy  them. But they did not stop, so she then threw her belt down to them, and  when this did not help, her garters, and then -- one thing at a time --  everything that she had on  and could do without, until finally she had  nothing left but her shift.
The huntsmen, however, not letting themselves be dissuaded, climbed the  tree, lifted the girl down, and took her to the king.
The king asked, "Who are you? What are you doing in that tree?"
But she did not answer. He asked her in every language that he knew, but  she remained as speechless as a fish. Because she was so beautiful, the  king's heart was touched, and he fell deeply in love with her. He put his  cloak around her, lifted her onto his horse in front of himself, and took  her to his castle. There he had her dressed in rich garments, and she  glistened in her beauty like bright daylight, but no one could get a word  from her.
At the table he seated her by his side, and her modest manners and  courtesy pleased him so much that he said, "My desire is to marry her, and  no one else in the world."
A few days later they were married.
Now the king had a wicked mother who was dissatisfied with this marriage  and spoke ill of the young queen. "Who knows," she said, "where the girl  who cannot speak comes from? She is not worthy of a king."
A year later, after the queen had brought her first child into the world,  the old woman took it away from her while she was asleep, and smeared her  mouth with blood. Then she went to the king and accused her of being a  cannibal. The king could not believe this, and would not allow anyone to  harm her. She, however, sat the whole time sewing on the shirts, and  caring for nothing else.
The next time, when she again gave birth to a beautiful boy, the deceitful  mother-in-law did the same thing again, but the king could not bring  himself to believe her accusations.
He said, "She is too pious and good to do anything like that. If she were  not speechless, and if she could defend herself, her innocence would come  to light."
But when the old woman stole away a newly born child for the third time,  and accused the queen, who did not defend herself with a single word, the  king had no choice but to bring her to justice, and she was sentenced to  die by fire.
When the day came for the sentence to be carried out, it was also the last  day of the six years during which she had not been permitted to speak or  to laugh, and she had thus delivered her dear brothers from the magic  curse. The six shirts were finished. Only the left sleeve of the last one  was missing. When she was led to the stake, she laid the shirts on her  arm. Standing there, as the fire was about to be lighted, she looked  around, and six swans came flying through the air. Seeing that their  redemption was near, her heart leapt with joy.
The swans rushed towards her, swooping down so that she could throw the  shirts over them. As soon as the shirts touched them their swan-skins fell  off, and her brothers stood before her in their own bodies, vigorous and  handsome. However, the youngest was missing his left arm. In its place he  had a swan's wing.
They embraced and kissed one another. Then the queen went to the king, who  was greatly moved, and she began to speak, saying, "Dearest husband, now I  may speak and reveal to you that I am innocent, and falsely accused."
Then she told him of the treachery of the old woman who had taken away  their three children and hidden them.
Then to the king's great joy they were brought forth. As a punishment, the  wicked mother-in-law was tied to the stake and burned to ashes. But the  king and the queen with her six brothers lived many long years in  happiness and peace.


Old Hildebrand

One day he said to her, "Listen, dear woman, I've thought it through, and I know how the two of us can spend an entire day together. On Wednesday tell your husband that you are sick and lie down in bed moaning and groaning. Carry on like that until Sunday, when in my sermon I will preach that if anyone has a sick child at home, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick father, a sick mother, a sick sister, brother, or anyone else, then that person should make a pilgrimage to Mount Cuckoo in Italy. There, for a kreuzer, one can get a peck of laurel leaves, and this person's sick child, sick husband, sick wife, sick father, sick mother, sick sister, brother, or anyone else, will be healed on the spot."
"I'll do it," said the peasant's wife. So on Wednesday she went to bed, moaning and groaning. Her husband did everything for her that he could think of, but nothing helped. Sunday arrived, and the peasant's wife said, "I'm so miserable that I must be near death, but before I die, I would like to hear the sermon that the priest is going to give today."
The peasant answered, "Oh, my child, you can't go out. If you get up it might make you worse. Look, I'll go to church and pay close attention and tell you everything that the priest says."
"Good," said the peasant's wife. "Go and pay close attention, and then tell me everything that you have heard."
So the peasant went to church, and the priest began to preach, saying that if anyone had a sick child at home, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick father, a sick mother, a sick sister, brother, or anyone else, then that person should make a pilgrimage to Mount Cuckoo in Italy, where a peck of laurel leaves costs one kreuzer, and this person's sick child, sick husband, sick wife, sick father, sick mother, sick sister, brother, or anyone else, will be healed on the spot, and that anyone who might want to undertake this trip should come to him after the mass, and he would give him a sack for the laurel leaves and a kreuzer.
No one was happier than the peasant, and immediately following the mass he went to the priest and asked for the laurel sack and the kreuzer. Then he went home, and even before going inside called out, "Hurrah! My dear wife, you are just as good as cured. The priest preached today that whoever has a sick child at home, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick father, a sick mother, a sick sister, brother, or anyone else, then that person should make a pilgrimage to Mount Cuckoo in Italy, where a peck of laurel leaves costs one kreuzer, and this person's sick child, sick husband, sick wife, sick father, sick mother, sick sister, brother, or anyone else, will be healed on the spot, and I got the laurel sack and the kreuzer from the priest, and am going to take off immediately, so you can get better as soon as possible." And with that he set forth.
He had scarcely left before his wife got out of bed, and the priest arrived. But let's leave them for awhile and see what happened to the peasant. He was hurrying along in order to arrive at Mount Cuckoo as soon as possible, when he met a kinsman. Now this kinsman was an egg man, who was just returning from market, where he had sold his eggs.
"Bless you!" said the kinsman. "Where are you off to in such a hurry?"
"In all eternity!" said the peasant. "My wife has become sick, and today in the priest's sermon I heard that if anyone has a sick child at home, a sick husband, a sick wife, a sick father, a sick mother, a sick sister, brother, or anyone else, then that person should make a pilgrimage to Mount Cuckoo in Italy, where a peck of laurel leaves costs one kreuzer, and this person's sick child, sick husband, sick wife, sick father, sick mother, sick sister, brother, or anyone else, will be healed on the spot, and I got the laurel sack and the kreuzer from the priest, and now I am on my way."
"Listen, kinsman," said the peasant's kinsman. "Don't be so simple as to believe that. Do you know what? The priest wants to spend an entire day alone with your wife. He has given you this task just to get you out from under his feet."
"My!" the peasant said. "How I would like to know if that is true!"
"Do you know what?" said his kinsman, "Just climb into my egg basket, and I will carry you home, and you can see for yourself."
And that is just what happened. The peasant got into the egg basket, and his kinsman carried him home. When they arrived there, the good times had already started. The peasant's wife had slaughtered almost everything in the farmyard and had made pancakes, and the priest was there with his fiddle. The kinsman knocked at the door, and the peasant's wife asked who was there.
"It's me, kinswoman," said the kinsman. "Can you give me shelter for the night? I did not sell my eggs at the market, so now I have to carry them back home, but they are too heavy, and I can't make it. It is already dark."
"Well," said the peasant's wife, "you have come at a very inconvenient time, but it can't be helped. Just sit down over there on the bench by the stove." So the kinsman took a seat on the bench and set his pack basket down beside him. And the priest and the peasant's wife proceeded to carry on.
After a while the priest said, "Listen, my dear woman, you are such a good singer. Sing something for me."
"No," said the peasant's wife, "I can't sing anymore. I could sing well when I was younger, but that's all behind me now."
"Oh," said the priest, "do sing just a little."
So the peasant's wife started to sing:
And the priest sang back:
Then the kinsman chimed in (oh, I have to tell you that the peasant's name was Hildebrand), and sang out:
The peasant, from inside the basket, sang forth:
With that he jumped from the basket, and with blows he drove the priest out of the house.

The Water Nixie

She gave the girl tangled dirty flax to spin, and she had to fill a  bottomless barrel with water. The boy had to chop down a tree with a dull  ax, and all they got to eat were dumplings as hard as rocks.
Finally the children became so impatient, that they waited until one  Sunday when the nixie was at church, and then ran away. When church was  over, the nixie saw that the birds had flown away, and she followed them  with long strides.
The children saw her from afar, and the girl threw a brush behind her,  which turned into a large brush-mountain with thousands and thousands of  spikes, which the nixie had to climb over with great difficulty, but she  finally got to the other side.
When the children saw this the boy threw a comb behind him, which  turned into a large comb-mountain with a thousand times a thousand teeth,  but the nixie was able to keep hold of them, and finally got to the other  side.
Then the girl threw a mirror behind her, which turned into a glass  mountain, which was so slippery, so slippery that it was impossible for  the nixie to climb over it.
Then she thought, "I will quickly go home and get my ax and chop the  glass mountain in two."
However, by the time she returned and had chopped up the glass  mountain, the children were far away and had escaped, so the water nixie  had to trudge back to her well.

Doctor Know-All

"Certainly," said the doctor, "in no time at all."
"What do I have to do?" asked the peasant.
First of all, buy yourself an ABC-book, one that has a picture of a rooster up front. Second, sell your wagon and your two oxen and buy yourself some clothing and other things that doctors use. Third, have yourself a sign painted with the words 'I am Doctor Know-All' and nail it above the door to your house."
The peasant did everything he was told to do. After he had doctored a little -- but not very much -- some money was stolen from a great and wealthy  nobleman. Someone told him about the Doctor Know-All who lived in such and such a village, and who must know where the money had gone. So the nobleman had his carriage hitched up, rode out to the village, and asked him if he were Doctor Know-All.
"Yes, that I am."
"Then you must come with me and recover my stolen money."
"Yes, but my wife Grete must come along too."
The nobleman agreed and had them take their places in his carriage. They rode away together.
They arrived at the nobleman's court just at mealtime, and the nobleman invited him to eat.
"Yes, but include my wife Grete," he replied, and the two of them sat down behind the table.
When the first servant brought out a platter of fine food the peasant nudged his wife and said, "Grete, that's the first one," meaning the meal's first course.
However, the servant thought that he meant, "That's the first thief," and because that is indeed what he was, he took fright, and outside he said to his comrades, "The doctor knows everything. It's going to go badly for us. He said that I'm the first one."
The second one did not want to go inside at all, but finally he had to, and when he entered, the peasant nudged his wife and said, "Grete, that's the second one."
This servant took fright as well, and went outside. It did not go any better for the third one. Once again the peasant said, "Grete, that's the third one."
The fourth one brought in a covered platter, and the nobleman told the doctor that he should demonstrate his art by guessing what it contained. It was crabs. The peasant looked at the platter, and seeing no way out of his dilemma, he said to himself, "Oh, poor Crab!"
Hearing this, the nobleman called out, "If he knows that then he must know who has the money as well!"
The servant grew very fearful and motioned to the doctor to go outside. There all four of them confessed to him that they had stolen the money. They offered to give it all to him and a handsome sum in addition, if he would not turn them in. Otherwise they would all hang. They showed him where the money was hidden. The doctor was satisfied with this, and he went back inside and sat down again at the table.
"My lord," he said, "Now I will look in my book to see where the money is hidden.
However, the fifth servant climbed into the stove in order to hear if the doctor knew anything else. The doctor leafed back and forth in his book looking for the picture of the rooster. Not finding it, he said, "I know that you are in there. Come on out."
The man in the stove thought that the doctor was talking to him, and terrified, he jumped out, saying, "The man knows everything!"
Then Doctor Know-All showed the nobleman where the money was, but he did not tell who had stolen it. Thus he received a large reward from each side and became a famous man.

The Spirit in the Glass Bottle

"Oh," said the father sadly, "I cannot give you anything more, and in  these hard times I cannot earn a heller more than what we  need for our daily bread."
"Father, dear," answered the son, "don't worry about it. If it is God's  will everything will turn out well for me. I will do all right."
When the father said he was going into the woods and earn some money by  cutting cordwood, the son said, "I will go with  you and help you."
"No, my son," said the father, "you will find it too difficult. You are  not used to hard work, and will not be able to do it.  Furthermore, I have only one ax and no money left to buy another one  with."
"Just go to the neighbor," answered the son. "He will lend you his ax  until I have earned enough to buy one for myself."
So the father borrowed an ax from the neighbor, and the next morning at  daybreak they went out into the woods together.  The son helped his father and was quite cheerful and full of energy. When  the sun was directly above them, the father said,  "Let us rest now and eat our noon meal. Then all will go twice as well."
The son picked up his bread and said, "Just you rest, father. I am not  tired. I will walk about a little in the woods and look for  birds' nests."
"Oh, you fool," said the father, "why do you want to run about? Afterwards  you will be tired and no longer able to lift an arm.  Stay here, and sit down beside me."
But the son went into the woods, ate his bread, was very cheerful, and  looked into the green branches to see if he could find a  bird's nest. He walked to and fro until at last he came to an enormous oak  that was certainly many hundred years old, and that  five men would not have been able to span. He stood there looking at it,  and thought, "Many a bird must have built its nest in  that tree."
Then suddenly he thought that he heard a voice. Listening, he became aware  of someone calling out with a muffled voice, "Let  me out. Let me out."
He looked around but could not see anything. Then he thought that the  voice was coming out of the ground, so he shouted,  "Where are you?"
The voice answered, "I am stuck down here among the oak roots. Let me out.  Let me out."
The student began to scrape about beneath the tree, searching among the  roots, until at last he found a glass bottle in a little  opening. Lifting it up, he held it against the light, and then saw  something shaped like a frog jumping up and down inside.
"Let me out. Let me out," it cried again, and the student, thinking no  evil, pulled the cork from the bottle. Immediately a spirit  ascended from it and began to grow. It grew so fast that within a few  moments a horrible fellow, half as big as the tree, was  standing there before the student.
"Do you know," he cried in an terrifying voice, "what your reward is for  having let me out?"
"No," replied the student fearlessly. "How should I know that?"
"Then I will tell you," shouted the spirit. "I must break your neck for  it."
"You should have said so sooner," answered the student, "for then I would  have left you shut up inside. However, my head is  going to stay where it is until more people have been consulted."
"More people here, more people there," shouted the spirit. "You shall have  the reward you have earned. Do you think that I  was shut up there for such a long time as a favor? No, it was a  punishment. I am the mighty Mercurius. I must break the neck  of whomsoever releases me."
"Calm down," answered the student. "Not so fast. First I must know that  you really were shut up in that little bottle, and that  you are the right spirit. If you can indeed get inside again, then I will  believe it, and you may do with me whatsoever you want."
The spirit said arrogantly, "that is an easy trick," pulling himself in  and making himself as thin and short as he had been before.  He then crept back into the opening and through the neck of the bottle. He  was scarcely inside when the student pushed the  cork back into the bottle, and threw it back where it had been among the  oak roots. And thus the spirit was deceived.
The student was about to return to his father, but the spirit cried out  pitifully, "Oh, do let me out. Oh, do let me out."
"No," answered the student, "not a second time. I will not release a  person who once tried to kill me, now that I have captured  him again."
"If you will set me free," cried the spirit, "I will give you so much that  you will have enough for all the days of your life."
"No," answered the student, "you would cheat me like you tried to the  first time."
"You are giving away your own good fortune," said the spirit. "I will not  harm you, but instead will reward you richly."
The student thought, "I will venture it. Perhaps he will keep his word,  and in any event he will not get the better of me."
So he pulled out the cork, and the spirit rose up from the bottle as  before, and extended himself, becoming as large as a giant.
"Now you shall have your reward," he said, handing the student a little  rag that looked just like a small bandage. He said, "If  you rub a wound with the one end, it will heal, and if you rub steel or  iron with the other end, it will turn into silver."
"I have to try that," said the student. He went to a tree, scratched the  bark with his ax, then rubbed it with the one end of the  bandage. It immediately closed together and was healed.
"Now it is all right," he said to the spirit, "and we can part."
The spirit thanked him for having freed him, and the student thanked the  spirit for the present, and returned to his father.
"Where have you been running about?" said the father. "Why have you  forgotten your work? I said that you wouldn't get  anything done."
"Don't be concerned, father. I will make it up."
"Make it up indeed," said the father angrily. "Don't bother."
"Just watch, father. I will soon cut down that tree there and make it  crash."
Then he took his bandage, rubbed the ax with it, and struck a mighty blow,  but because the iron had turned into silver, the  cutting edge bent back on itself.
"Hey, father, just look what a bad ax you've given me. It is all bent out  of shape."
The father was shocked and said, "Oh, what have you done! Now I'll have to  pay for the ax, and I don't know what with.  That is all the good I have from your work."
"Don't get angry," said the son, "I will pay for the ax."
"Oh, you blockhead," cried the father, "How will you pay for it? You have  nothing but what I give you. You have students'  tricks stuck in your head, but you don't know anything about chopping  wood."
After a little while the student said, "Father, I can't work any longer  after all. Let's quit for the day."
"Now then," he answered, "do you think I can stand around with my hands in  my pockets like you? I have to go on working,  but you may head for home."
"Father, I am here in these woods for the first time. I don't know my way  alone. Please go with me."
His anger had now subsided, so the father at last let himself be talked  into going home with him.
There he said to the son, "Go and sell the damaged ax and see what you can  get for it. I will have to earn the difference, in  order to pay the neighbor."
The son picked up the ax and took it into town to a goldsmith, who tested  it, weighed it, and then said, "It is worth four  hundred talers. I do not have that much cash with me."
The student said, "Give me what you have. I will lend you the rest."
The goldsmith gave him three hundred talers and owed him one hundred. Then  the student went home and said, "Father, I  have some money. Go and ask the neighbor what he wants for the ax."
"I already know," answered the old man. "One taler, six groschens."
"Then give him two talers, twelve groschens. That is double its worth and  is plenty. See, I have more than enough money."  Then he gave the father a hundred talers, saying, "You shall never need  anything. Live just like you want to."
"My goodness," said the old man. "Where did you get all that money?"
Then the son told him everything that had happened, and how by trusting in  his luck he had made such a catch. With the  money that was left he went back to the university and continued his  studies, and because he could heal all wounds with his  bandage he became the most famous doctor in the whole world.


The Pack of Scoundrels

"Yes," answered the hen. "Come, let us go and have some fun together.
Together they went up the mountain, and since it was a clear day, they stayed until evening.
Now I don't know whether it was because they had overeaten, or they were just in high spirits, but -- to make a long story short -- they did not want to go back home on foot, so the rooster had to make a little carriage out of nutshells.
When it was finished, the hen sat down in it and said to the rooster, "You can hitch yourself to it."
"You are dreaming!" said the rooster. "I would rather go home on foot than have myself hitched up. That was not our agreement. I want to be the coachman and sit in the driver's seat. I am not going to pull it."
While they were quarreling about this, a duck came quacking by. "You thieves, who invited you to my nut mountain? Wait! You'll be sorry!" And with an open beak she attacked the rooster.
The rooster did not take this lying down. Jumping furiously onto the duck, he hacked at her so fiercely with one of his spurs that she begged for mercy, and as punishment she had to accept being hitched to the carriage.
So the rooster sat in the driver's seat and was the coachman, and away they sped.
"Run, duck! Run as fast as you can!"
After they had traveled a little way they met two people on foot, a pin and a needle.
"Stop! Stop!" shouted the pin and the needle, saying that soon it would be pitch dark, and they would not be able to walk another step. Moreover, the road was very dirty. They asked if they would not be able to climb inside for a little way, explaining that they had been at the tailor's tavern just outside the town gate, and that they had sat there too long over their beer.
Seeing that they were thin people and would not take up much room, the rooster let them both climb in, although they did have to promise that they would not step on his or on the hen's feet.
Late that evening they came to an inn, where they turned in, not wanting to drive any further into the night. Furthermore, the duck's feet were not doing well, and she was waddling from one side to the other.
At first the innkeeper did not want to receive them. He said that his inn was already full, but he was also thinking that these were not very respectable people. They begged him with their kindest words, offering to give him the egg that the hen had laid on the way, and telling him that he could keep the duck, who laid an egg every day. Finally he said that they could spend the night there.
They ordered food and drink, and had a high time.
Early the next morning, just as it was getting light, and everyone was still asleep, the rooster woke up the hen. They got the egg, pecked it open, and ate it together, throwing the shells into the fireplace. Then they went to the needle, who was still asleep, grabbed it by the head, and stuck it into the innkeeper's seat cushion. They stuck the pin into his towel, and then without further ado they fled across the heath.
The duck, who preferred to sleep under the open sky, had spent the night in the courtyard, and she heard them sneaking away. She forced herself to wake up, found a brook, and swam away downstream, much faster than she had traveled in front of the carriage.
A few hours later the innkeeper climbed out of the feathers, washed himself, and started to dry off on the towel when the pin went across his face, leaving a red streak from one ear to the other. Then he went into the kitchen. He wanted to light his pipe, but as he approached the fireplace, the eggshells sprang into his eyes.
"Everything is after my head today," he said, sitting down crossly in the grandfather chair, but he jumped up immediately, shouting, "Ouch!" The needle had stuck him even worse, and not in the head.
Now he was totally angry. Suspecting the guests who had arrived so late yesterday evening, he went to look for them, but they were gone.
He then vowed never again to take in such a pack of scoundrels who eat and drink a lot, pay nothing, and for thanks play mean tricks.

Bearskin

His parents were dead, and he had no longer a home, so he went to his brothers and asked them to support him until there was another war.
The brothers, however, were hardhearted and said, "What can we do with you? We have no work for you. See that you go and make a living for  yourself."
The soldier had nothing left but his gun, so, putting it on his  shoulder, he went forth into the world. He came to a large heath, on which nothing was  to be seen but a circle of trees. Filled with sorrow, he sat down beneath them  and thought about his fate.
"I have no money," he thought, "and the only trade I have learned is that of making war, and now that they have made peace they can  no longer use me, so I see that I shall starve."
Suddenly he heard a rustling sound, and when he looked around, a  strange man was standing before him. He wore a green jacket and looked quite stately,  but he had a hideous horse's foot.
"I know what you are in need of," said the man. "You shall have money and property, as much as you, with all your might, can squander away, but first I must know if you are fearless, so that I won't be giving  away my money for nothing."
"A soldier and fear -- how can those go together?" he answered, "You can put me to the test."
"Very well," answered the man, "look behind you."
The soldier turned around and saw a large growling bear running towards  him.
"Aha," shouted the soldier, "I'll tickle your nose until you lose your desire for growling." Then taking aim at the bear, he shot it in the snout, and it fell down motionless.
"I see quite well," said the stranger, "that you do not lack for courage, but there is one more condition that you will have to fulfill."
"If it does not endanger my salvation," answered the soldier, who knew quite well who was standing before him. "Otherwise I'll have nothing to do with it."
"You'll see about that for yourself," answered Greenjacket. "For the next seven years you are neither to wash yourself, nor comb your beard and hair, nor cut your nails, nor say the Lord's prayer. I will give  you a jacket and a cloak, which you must wear during this time. If you die  during these seven years, you are mine. If you stay alive, you are free, and rich  as well, for all the rest of your life."
The soldier thought about his desperate situation, and having faced  death so often before, he decided to risk it now as well, and he entered into the agreement.
The devil took off his green jacket and gave it to the soldier, saying, "Whenever you wear this jacket and reach into its pocket, you will find a handful of money."
Then he pulled the skin off the bear and said, "This shall be your cloak, and your bed as well, for you are to sleep on it, and you are not allowed to lie in any other bed. Because of your clothing you shall you be called Bearskin." With that the devil disappeared.
The soldier put on the jacket, immediately reached into the pocket, and found that the promise was really true. Then he put on the bearskin and  went forth into the world. He did whatever he pleased, refraining from nothing  that did him good and his money harm.
During the first year his appearance was still acceptable, but during  the second he looked like a monster. His hair covered nearly his entire face.  His beard looked like a piece of coarse felt cloth. His fingers had claws, and  his face was so covered with dirt that if someone had planted cress on it, it  would have grown. Everyone who saw him ran away. However, because everywhere he  went he gave money to the poor to pray that he might not die during the seven  years, and because he paid well for everything, he always found shelter.
In the fourth year he arrived an inn. The innkeeper would not let him  enter, refusing even to let him have a place in the stable because he was afraid  he would frighten the horses. However, when Bearskin reached into his pocket  and pulled out a handful of ducats, the innkeeper softened and gave him a room  in an outbuilding. Bearskin, however, had to promise not to let himself be  seen, lest the inn should get a bad name.
One evening Bearskin was sitting alone, wishing with all his heart that  the seven years were over, he heard a loud moaning in a neighboring room. He  had a compassionate heart, so he opened the door and saw an old man weeping  bitterly and striking his hands together above his head. Bearskin went nearer, but  the man jumped to his feet and tried to run away. At last, hearing a human  voice, the man let Bearskin talk to him, and with friendly words Bearskin  succeeded in getting the old man to reveal the cause of his grief. Slowly but surely  the old man had lost his wealth, and now he and his daughters would have to  starve. He was so poor that he could not pay the innkeeper and was to be sent to  prison.
"If that is your only problem," said Bearskin, "I have money enough." He called for the innkeeper and paid him, and then put a bag full of gold into the poor man's pocket.
When the old man saw that he was freed from all his troubles he did not  know how to show his gratitude.
"Come with me," he said to Bearskin. "My daughters are all miracles of beauty. Choose one of them for your wife. When she hears what  you have done for me she will not refuse you. You do look a little strange, to  be sure, but she will put you in order again."
This pleased Bearskin well, and he went with the old man.
When the oldest daughter saw him she was so terrified at his face that  she screamed and ran away.
The second one stood still and looked at him from head to foot, but  then she said, "How can I accept a husband who no longer has a human form? The shaved bear that once was here and passed itself off for a man pleased me  far better. At least it was wearing a hussar's fur and white gloves. If  ugliness were his only flaw, I could get used to him."
The youngest one, however, said, "Father, dear, he must be a good man  to have helped you out of your trouble. If you promised him a bride for doing  so, your word must be kept."
It was a pity that Bearskin's face was covered with dirt and hair, for otherwise they would have seen how his heart laughed within his body when  he heard these words. He took a ring from his finger, broke it in two, and gave her  one half. He kept the other half himself. He then wrote his name inside her  half, and her name inside his. He asked her to take good care of her piece.
Then he took leave saying, "I must wander about for three more years. If I do not return at that time you are free, for I shall be dead. But ask  God to preserve my life."
The poor bride-to-be dressed herself entirely in black, and when she  thought about her future bridegroom, tears came into her eyes. From her sisters  she received nothing but contempt and scorn.
"Be careful," said the oldest. "If you give him your hand, he will hit you with his claws."
"Beware," said the second. "Bears like sweet things, and if he takes a liking to you, he will eat you up."
"You must always do what he wants you to," continued the oldest, "or he will begin to growl."
And the second added, "But the wedding will be merry, for bears dance well."
The bride-to-be said nothing and did not let them irritate her.  Bearskin, however, traveled about the world from one place to another, did good  wherever he could, and gave generously to the poor that they might pray for him.
Finally, at dawn on the last day of the seven years, he went once more   out to the heath, and seated himself beneath the circle of trees. Before long  the wind began to howl, and the devil stood before him, looking at him  angrily. He threw Bearskin's old jacket to him and demanded the return of his own  green one.
"We haven't gotten that far yet," answered Bearskin. "First of all you have to clean me up."
Whether the devil wanted to or not, he had to fetch water and wash off Bearskin, comb his hair, and cut his nails. After this he looked like a  brave soldier and was much better looking than he had ever been before.
When the devil was safely gone Bearskin was quite lighthearted. He went  into the town, purchased a splendid velvet jacket, seated himself in a carriage drawn by four white horses, and drove to his bride's house. No one  recognized him. The father took him for a distinguished colonel and led him into the  room where his daughters were sitting. He was given a seat between the two  oldest ones. They poured wine for him, served him the finest things to eat, and thought that they had never seen a more handsome man in all the world.
The bride-to-be, however, sat across from him in her black dress  without raising her eyes or speaking a word. Finally he asked the father if he  would give him one of his daughters for a wife, whereupon the two oldest ones  jumped up and ran into their bedrooms to put on splendid dresses, for each of  them thought that she was the chosen one.
As soon as he was alone with his bride-to-be, the stranger brought out  his half of the ring and dropped it into a glass of wine, which he handed  across the table to her. She took the wine, but when she had drunk it and found  the half ring lying at the bottom, her heart began to beat. She took the other half, which she wore on a ribbon around her neck, put them together, and  saw that the two pieces matched perfectly.
Then he said, "I am your betrothed bridegroom, whom you saw as Bearskin. Through God's grace I have regained my human form and have  become clean again."
He went to her, embraced her, and gave her a kiss. In the meantime the  two sisters came back in full dress. When they saw that the youngest sister  had received the handsome man, and heard that he was Bearskin, they ran out  filled with anger and rage. One of them drowned herself in the well. The other  hanged herself on a tree.
That evening, someone knocked at the door, and when the bridegroom  opened it, it was the devil in his green jacket, who said, "You see, I now have two souls for the one of yours."

Rapunzel

One day the woman was standing at this window, and she saw a bed planted with the most beautiful rapunzel. It looked so fresh and green that she longed for some. It was her greatest desire to eat some of the rapunzel. This desire increased with every day, and not knowing how to get any, she became miserably ill.
Her husband was frightened, and asked her, "What ails you, dear wife?"
"Oh," she answered, "if I do not get some rapunzel from the garden behind our house, I shall die."
The man, who loved her dearly, thought, "Before you let your wife die, you must get her some of the rapunzel, whatever the cost."
So just as it was getting dark he climbed over the high wall into the sorceress's garden, hastily dug up a handful of rapunzel, and took it to his wife. She immediately made a salad from it, which she devoured eagerly. It tasted so very good to her that by the next day her desire for more had grown threefold. If she were to have any peace, the man would have to climb into the garden once again. Thus he set forth once again just as it was getting dark. But no sooner than he had climbed over the wall than, to his horror, he saw the sorceress standing there before him.
"How can you dare," she asked with an angry look, "to climb into my garden and like a thief to steal my rapunzel? You will pay for this."
"Oh," he answered, "Let mercy overrule justice. I came to do this out of necessity. My wife saw your rapunzel from our window, and such a longing came over her, that she would die, if she did not get some to eat."
The sorceress's anger abated somewhat, and she said, "If things are as you say, I will allow you to take as much rapunzel as you want. But under one condition: You must give me the child that your wife will bring to the world. It will do well, and I will take care of it like a mother."
In his fear the man agreed to everything.
When the woman gave birth, the sorceress appeared, named the little girl Rapunzel, and took her away. Rapunzel became the most beautiful child under the sun. When she was twelve years old, the fairy locked her in a tower that stood in a forest and that had neither a door nor a stairway, but only a tiny little window at the very top.
When the sorceress wanted to enter, she stood below and called out:
A few years later it happened that a king's son was riding through the forest. As he approached the tower he heard a song so beautiful that he stopped to listen. It was Rapunzel, who was passing the time by singing with her sweet voice. The prince wanted to climb up to her, and looked for a door in the tower, but none was to be found.
He rode home, but the song had so touched his heart that he returned to the forest every day and listened to it. One time, as he was thus standing behind a tree, he saw the sorceress approach, and heard her say:
"If that is the ladder into the tower, then sometime I will try my luck."
And the next day, just as it was beginning to get dark, he went to the tower and called out:
At first Rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man such as she had never seen before came in to her. However, the prince began talking to her in a very friendly manner, telling her that his heart had been so touched by her singing that he could have no peace until he had seen her in person. Then Rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take him as her husband, she thought, "He would rather have me than would old Frau Gothel." She said yes and placed her hand into his.
She said, "I would go with you gladly, but I do not know how to get down. Every time that you come, bring a strand of silk, from which I will weave a ladder. When it is finished I will climb down, and you can take me away on your horse." They arranged that he would come to her every evening, for the old woman came by day.
The sorceress did not notice what was happening until one day Rapunzel said to her, "Frau Gothel, tell me why it is that you are more difficult to pull up than is the young prince, who will be arriving any moment now?"
"You godless child," cried the sorceress. "What am I hearing from you? I thought I had removed you from the whole world, but you have deceived me nonetheless."
In her anger she grabbed Rapunzel's beautiful hair, wrapped it a few times around her left hand, grasped a pair of scissors with her right hand, and snip snap, cut it off. And she was so unmerciful that she took Rapunzel into a wilderness where she suffered greatly.
On the evening of the same day that she sent Rapunzel away, the fairy tied the cut-off hair to the hook at the top of the tower, and when the prince called out:
The prince climbed up, but above, instead of his beloved Rapunzel, he found the sorceress, who peered at him with poisonous and evil looks.
"Aha!" she cried scornfully. "You have come for your Mistress Darling, but that beautiful bird is no longer sitting in her nest, nor is she singing any more. The cat got her, and will scratch your eyes out as well. You have lost Rapunzel. You will never see her again."
The prince was overcome with grief, and in his despair he threw himself from the tower. He escaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell poked out his eyes. Blind, he wandered about in the forest, eating nothing but grass and roots, and doing nothing but weeping and wailing over the loss of his beloved wife. Thus he wandered about miserably for some years, finally happening into the wilderness where Rapunzel lived miserably with the twins that she had given birth to.
He heard a voice and thought it was familiar. He advanced toward it, and as he approached, Rapunzel recognized him, and crying, threw her arms around his neck. Two of her tears fell into his eyes, and they became clear once again, and he could see as well as before. He led her into his kingdom, where he was received with joy, and for a long time they lived happily and satisfied.
Return to D. L. Ashliman's folktexts, a library of folktales, folklore, fairy tales, and mythology.


Sweet Porridge

The girl took the pot home to her mother, and now they were freed from their poverty and hunger, and ate sweet porridge as often as they chose. One time when the girl had gone out, her mother said, "Little pot, cook." And it did cook, and she ate until she was full, and then she wanted the pot to stop cooking, but did not know the word.  So it went on cooking and the porridge rose over the edge, and still it cooked on until the kitchen and whole house were full, and then the next house, and then the whole street, just as if it wanted to satisfy the hunger of the whole world.  It was terrible, and no one knew how to stop it.  At last when only one single house remained, the child came home and just said, "Little pot, stop," and it stopped cooking, and anyone who wished to return to the town had to eat his way back.

The Clever People

"In God's name, just go in peace," answered the woman, "I will manage that."
"You, indeed," said the man. "You once fell on your head when you were a little child, and that affects you even now. But let me tell you this, if you do anything foolish, I will make your back black and blue, and not with paint, I assure you, but with the stick which I have in my hand. And the coloring shall last a whole year. You may rely on that." Having said that, the man went on his way.
The next morning the cattle dealer came, and the woman had no need to say many words to him. When he had seen the cows and heard the price, he said, "I am quite willing to give that. Honestly speaking, they are worth it. I will take the animals away with me at once."
He unfastened their chains and drove them out of the stall, but just as he was going out of the farmyard gate, the woman clutched him by the sleeve and said, "You must give me the two hundred talers now, or I cannot let the cows go."
"Right," answered the man, "but I have forgotten to buckle on my money belt. Have no fear, however, you shall have security until I pay. I will take two cows with me and leave one, so you will have good collateral."
The woman saw the wisdom of this, and let the man go away with the cows, and thought to herself, "How pleased Hans will be when he finds how cleverly I have managed."
The peasant came home on the third day as he had said he would, and at once inquired if the cows were sold. "Yes, indeed, dear Hans," answered the woman, "and as you said, for two hundred talers. They are scarcely worth so much, but the man took them without making any objection."
"Where is the money?" asked the peasant. "Oh, I have not got the money," replied the woman. "He had happened to forget his money belt, but he will soon bring it, and he left good security behind him."
"What kind of security?" asked the man.
"One of the three cows, which he shall not have until he has paid for the other two. I have managed very cunningly, for I have kept the smallest, which eats the least."
The man was enraged and lifted up his stick, and was just going to give her the beating he had promised her, when suddenly he lowered the stick and said, "You are the stupidest goose that ever waddled on God's earth, but I am sorry for you. I will go out into the highway and wait for three days to see if I find anyone who is still stupider than you. If I succeed in doing so, you shall go free, but if I do not find him, you shall receive your well-deserved reward without any discount."
He went out into the great highway, sat down on a stone, and waited for what would come along. Then he saw a farm wagon coming towards him, and a woman was standing upright in the middle of it, instead of sitting on the bundle of straw which was lying beside her, or walking near the oxen and leading them.
The man thought to himself, "That is certainly one of the kind I am in search of," and jumped up and ran back and forth in front of the wagon like one who is not in his right mind.
"What do you want, my friend?" said the woman to him. "I don't know you, where do you come from?"
"I have fallen down from heaven," replied the man, "and don't know how to get back again. Couldn't you drive me up?"
"No," said the woman, "I don't know the way. But if you come from heaven you can surely tell me how my husband is, who has been there these three years. You must have seen him."
"Oh, yes, I have seen him, but not everyone can get on well. He herds sheep, and these creatures give him a great deal to do. They run up the mountains and lose their way in the wilderness, and he has to run after them and drive them together again. His clothes are all torn to pieces too, and will soon fall off his body. There is no tailor there, for Saint Peter won't let any of them in, as you know by the story."
"Who would have thought it?" cried the woman. "I tell you what. I will fetch his Sunday coat which is still hanging at home in the cupboard. He can wear that and look respectable. You will be so kind as to take it with you."
"That won't be possible," answered the peasant. "People are not allowed to take clothes into heaven. They are taken away at the gate."
"Then listen to me," said the woman. "I sold my good wheat yesterday and got a lot of money for it. I will send that to him. If you hide the purse in your pocket, no one will know that you have it."
"If you can't manage it any other way," said the peasant, "I will do you that favor."
"Just sit still where you are," said she, "and I will drive home and fetch the purse. I shall soon be back again. I do not sit down on the bundle of straw, but stand up in the wagon, because it makes it lighter for the cattle."
She drove her oxen away, and the peasant thought, "That woman has a perfect talent for folly. If she really brings the money, my wife may think herself fortunate, for she will get no beating."
It was not long before she came in a great hurry with the money, and with her own hands put it in his pocket. Before she went away, she thanked him again a thousand times for his courtesy.
When the woman got home again, she found her son who had come in from the field. She told him what unexpected things had befallen her, and then added, "I am truly delighted at having found an opportunity of sending something to my poor husband. Who would ever have imagined that he could be suffering for want of anything up in heaven?"
The son was full of astonishment. "Mother," said he, it is not every day that a man comes from heaven in this way. I will go out immediately, and see if he is still to be found, he must tell me what it is like up there, and how the work is done.
He saddled the horse and rode off with all speed. He found the peasant who was sitting under a willow tree, and was about to count the money in the purse. "Have you seen the man who has come from heaven?" cried the youth to him.
"Yes," answered the peasant, "he has set out on his way back there, and has gone up that hill, from whence it will be rather nearer. You could still catch him up, if you ride fast."
"Alas," said the youth, "I have been doing tiring work all day, and the ride here has completely worn me out. You know the man. Be so kind as to get on my horse, and go and persuade him to come here."
"Aha," thought the peasant. "Here is another who has no wick in his lamp."
"Why should I not do you this favor?" said he, and mounted the horse and rode off at a quick trot. The youth remained sitting there until night fell, but the peasant never came back.
"The man from heaven must certainly have been in a great hurry, and would not turn back," thought he, "and the peasant has no doubt given him the horse to take to my father." He went home and told his mother what had happened, and that he had sent his father the horse so that he might not have to be always running about.
"You have done well," answered she. "You still have young legs and can go on foot."
When the peasant got home, he put the horse in the stable beside the cow which had been left as security, and then went to his wife and said, "Trina, as your luck would have it, I have found two who are still more stupid fools than you. This time you escape without a beating. I will store it up for another occasion."
Then he lighted his pipe, sat down in his grandfather's chair, and said, "It was a good stroke of business to get a sleek horse and a great purse full of money into the bargain, for two lean cows. If stupidity always brought in as much as that, I would be quite willing to hold it in honor."
So thought the peasant, but you no doubt prefer the simpletons.

A Riddling Tale

And that is what happened.
Now the question is, how did her husband recognize her, for the flowers  were exactly alike, and without any difference?
Answer: While she was in her house during the night and not in the  field, the dew did not fall on her as it did on the other two, and by this  her husband recognized her.

The Two Travelers

The shoemaker took a mighty drink, and the storm on his face began to  clear away. He gave the bottle back to the tailor, and said, "I took a  hearty gulp. They have a lot to say about heavy drinking, but not   much about great thirst. Shall we travel together?"
"All right," answered the tailor, "but only if only it suits you to go  to a big town where there is no lack of work."
"That is just where I wanted to go," answered the shoemaker. "In a small  place there is nothing to be earned, and in the country people prefer to  go barefoot."
Thus they traveled on together, always setting one foot before the other  like a weasel in the snow. Both of them had time enough, but little to  eat. When they reached a town they went about looking for work, and  because the tailor looked so lively and merry, and had such fine red  cheeks, every one gave him work willingly, and if he was lucky, the  master's daughter gave him a kiss as well.
Whenever he met up with the shoemaker, the tailor always had the most in  his bundle. The ill-tempered shoemaker would make a sour face, thinking,  "The greater the rascal, the better the luck."
But the tailor would begin  to laugh and to sing, and shared everything he had with his comrade. If a  couple of pennies jingled in his pockets, he ordered drinks, then  cheerfully thumped the table until the glasses danced. His motto was "Easy  come, easy go."
After they had traveled for some time, they came to a great forest through  which passed the way to the capital. Two footpaths led through  it, one of which was a seven days' journey and the other only two, but  neither of them knew which way was the shorter one. They sat down beneath  an oak tree and discussed together what preparations to make, and for how  many days they should provide themselves with bread.
The shoemaker said, "One must plan ahead for the unexpected. I will take  with me bread for a week."
"What?" said the tailor. "Haul bread for seven days on one's back like a  beast of burden and not be able to look about? I shall trust in God, and  not trouble myself about anything. The money I have in my pocket is as  good in summer as in winter, but in hot weather bread dries out and gets  moldy on top of that. Even my coat reaches only to my ankles. Why  shouldn't we find the right way? Bread for two days, and that's enough."
Therefore each person bought his own bread, and then they tried their luck  in the forest.    It was as quiet there as in a church. No wind stirred, no brook murmured,  no bird sang, and no sunbeam found its way through the thickly leaved  branches. The shoemaker did not speak a word. The bread weighed so heavily  on his back that the sweat streamed down his cross and gloomy face.
The tailor, however, was quite merry. Walking on with a spring in each  step, he whistled on a leaf, or sang a song, and thought to himself, "God  in heaven must be pleased that I am so happy."
This lasted two days, but on the third there was still no end to the  forest, and the tailor had eaten up all his bread. Thus his heart sank  down a yard deeper. Nevertheless, he did not lose courage, but relied on  God and on his luck. On the evening of the third day he lay down hungry  under a tree, and rose again the next morning still hungry. The fourth day  was  the same, and when the shoemaker seated himself on a fallen tree and  devoured his dinner the tailor was only a spectator.
If he begged for a little piece of bread, the other laughed mockingly, and  said, "You have always been so merry. Now you can see for once what it is  like to be sad. Birds that sing too early in the morning are caught by the  hawk in the evening."
In short, he was merciless. On the fifth morning the poor tailor could no  longer stand up and was hardly able to utter one word for weakness. His  cheeks were white, and his eyes were red.
Then the shoemaker said to him, "I will give you a bit of bread today, but  in return for it, I will put out your right eye."
The unhappy tailor, who still wished to save his life, had to submit. He  wept once more with both eyes, and then held them out, and the shoemaker,  who had a heart of stone, put out his right eye with a sharp knife. The  tailor remembered what his mother had once said to him when he had been  snacking in the pantry: "Eat whatever you can, and suffer whatever you  must."
After eating his dearly-bought bread, he got on his legs again, forgot his  misery, and comforted himself with the thought that he could always see  enough with one eye. But on the sixth day, hunger made itself felt again,  almost consuming his heart. That evening he fell down by a tree, and on  the seventh morning he was too weak to get up, and death was close at  hand.
Then the shoemaker said, "I will show mercy and give you bread once more,  but you shall not have it for nothing. I shall put out your other eye for  it."
And now the tailor felt how careless his life had been, prayed to God for  forgiveness, and said, "Do what you will. I will bear what I must, but  remember that our Lord God does not always look on passively, and that an  hour will come when the evil deed which you have done to me, and which I  have not deserved of you, will be requited. When times were good with me  I shared what I had with you. My trade is such that one stitch must follow  another. If I no longer have my eyes and can sew no more, I must go  begging. At any rate do not leave me here alone when I am blind, or I  shall die of hunger."
The shoemaker, however, who had driven God out of his heart, took the  knife and put out his left eye. Then he gave him a bit of bread to eat,  held out a stick to him, and led him on behind him.
At sunset, they got out of the forest, and before them in an open field  stood the gallows. The shoemaker led the blind tailor there, and then went  on his way, leaving him there alone. Weariness, pain, and hunger made the  wretched man fall asleep, and he slept the whole night. He awoke at dawn,  not knowing where he was.
Two poor sinners were hanging on the gallows, with a crow sat on the head  of each of them. Then one of the men who had been hanged began to speak,  and said, "Brother, are you awake?"
"Yes, I am awake," answered the second.
"Then I will tell you something," said the first. "The dew that this night  has fallen down over us from the gallows gives everyone who washes  himself with it his eyes again. If the blind knew this, how many would  regain their sight who do not believe that to be possible?"
Hearing this the tailor took his handkerchief, pressed it on the grass,  and when it was moist with dew, washed the sockets of his eyes with it.  Immediately what the man on the gallows had said came true, and a pair of  healthy new eyes filled the sockets. It was not long before the tailor saw  the sun rise from behind the mountains. In the plain before him lay the  great  royal city with its magnificent gates and hundred towers, and the golden  balls and crosses on the spires began to shine. He could distinguish every  leaf on the trees, saw the birds flying past, and the gnats dancing in the  air. He took a needle out of his pocket, and as he could thread it as well  as ever he had done, his heart danced with delight.
He threw himself on his knees, thanked God for the mercy he had shown him,  and said his morning prayer, not forgetting to pray for the poor sinners  who were hanging there swinging against each other in the wind like the  pendulums of clocks. Then he took his bundle on his back and soon forgot  the sorrow he had endured, and went on his way singing and whistling.
The first thing he came to was a brown foal freely running about the  field. He caught it by the mane, and wanted to mount it and ride into the  town. The foal, however, begged for its freedom. "I am still too young,"  it said. "Even a light tailor such as you are would break my back in two.  Let me go until I have grown strong. Perhaps a time may come when I can  reward you for it."
"Run off," said the tailor. "I see that you are still only a  whippersnapper."  He gave it a touch on its back with a switch, whereupon it kicked up its  hind legs for joy, jumped over hedges and ditches, and galloped away into  the open country.
The little tailor had eaten nothing since the day before. "The sun fills  my eyes," he said, "but bread does not fill my mouth. The first thing that  comes my way and is even half edible will have to suffer for it."
In the meantime a stork stepped solemnly over the meadow towards him.  "Stop, stop," cried the tailor, and seized him by the leg. "I don't know  if you are good to eat or not, but my hunger leaves me no great choice. I  must cut your head off, and roast you."
"Don't do that," replied the stork. "I am a sacred bird that brings  mankind great profit, and no one harms me. If you spare my life I will be  able do you good in some other way."
"Then be off, cousin longlegs," said the tailor. The stork rose up, let  its long legs hang down, and flew gently away.
"What's to be the end of this?" said the tailor to himself at last. "My  hunger grows greater and greater, and my stomach more and more empty.  Whatever comes in my way now is lost."
Then he saw a couple of young  ducks which were on a pond come swimming towards him. "You come just at  the right moment," said he, and laid hold of one of them and was about to  wring its neck.
With this an old duck which was hidden among the reeds, began to squawk  loudly. She swam to him with open beak, begging him urgently to spare her  dear children. "Can you not imagine," said she, "how your mother would  mourn if someone wanted to carry you off, and do an end to you."
"Quiet down," said the good-natured tailor. "You shall keep your  children," and he set the captured one back into the water.
When he turned around, he was standing in front of an old tree which was  partly hollow, and saw some wild bees flying in and out of it. "There I  shall find the reward of my good deed," said the tailor. "The honey will  refresh me."
But the queen bee came out and threatened him, saying, "If you touch my  people and destroy my nest our stings shall pierce your skin like ten  thousand red-hot needles. But if you leave us in peace and go your way we  will do you a service for it another time."
The little tailor saw that here also nothing was to be done. Three dishes  empty and nothing on the fourth is a bad dinner. He dragged himself  therefore with his starved-out stomach into the town, and as it was just  striking twelve, all was ready-cooked for him in the inn, and he was able  to sit down at once to dinner.
When he was satisfied he said, "Now I will get to work." He went around  the town, sought a master, and soon found a good situation. Because he  already had thoroughly learned his trade, it was not long before he became  famous, and everyone wanted to have a new coat made by the little tailor.  His reputation grew day by day.
"I can go no further in skill," said he, "and yet things improve every  day." At last the king appointed him court tailor.
But strange things do happen in the world. On that very same day his  former  comrade the shoemaker also became court shoemaker. When the latter caught  sight of the tailor, and saw that he once more had two healthy eyes, his  conscience troubled him. "Before he takes revenge on me," he thought to  himself, "I must dig a pit for him."
He, however, who digs a pit for another, falls into it himself. In the  evening when work was over and it was growing dark, he sneaked to the king  and said, "Your majesty, the tailor is an arrogant fellow and has boasted  that he will get the golden crown back again that was lost ages ago."
"That would please me," said the king, and the next morning he had the  tailor brought  before him, and ordered him to get the crown back again, or  to leave the city forever.
"Aha," thought the tailor. "A rogue gives more than he has. If the  bad-tempered king wants me to do what no one else can do, I will not wait  until morning, but will leave town at once."
Therefore he tied up his bundle, but once outside the gate he could not  help being sorry to give up his good fortune and turn his back on the  city in which all had gone so well for him. He came to the pond where he  had made the acquaintance of the ducks. At that very moment the old one  whose young ones he had spared was sitting there by the shore, preening  herself with her beak. She knew him again instantly, and asked why he was  hanging his head so.
"You will not be surprised when you hear what has happened to me," replied  the tailor, and told her his fate.
"If that is all," said the duck, "we can help you. The crown fell into the  water, and it lies down below at the bottom. We will soon bring it up  again for you. In the meantime just spread out your handkerchief on the  bank."
She dove down with her twelve young ones, and in five minutes she was up  again with the crown resting on her wings. The twelve young ones were  swimming round about with their beaks under it, helping to carry  it. They swam to the shore and put the crown on the handkerchief. No one  can imagine how magnificent the crown was. When the sun shone on it, it  gleamed like a hundred thousand carbuncles. The tailor tied his  handkerchief together by the four corners and carried it to the king, who  was full of joy, and hung a gold chain around the tailor's neck.
When the shoemaker saw that the one trick had failed, he contrived a  second, and went to the king and said, "Your majesty, the tailor has  become insolent again. He boasts that he can copy in wax the whole of the  royal palace, with everything that pertains to it, movable or immovable,  inside and out."
The king sent for the tailor and ordered him to copy in wax the whole of  the royal palace, with everything that pertained to it, movable or  immovable, inside and out. And failing this, or if so much as one nail on  the wall were missing, he should be imprisoned underground for the rest of  his life.
The tailor thought, "It gets worse and worse. No one can endure this," and  he threw his bundle on his back, and went forth. When he came to the  hollow  tree, he sat down and hung his head. The bees came flying out, and the  queen bee asked him if he had a stiff neck, since he hung his head so.
"Oh no," answered the tailor, "something quite different weighs me down,"  and he told her what the king had demanded of him.
The bees began to buzz and hum amongst themselves, and the queen bee said,  "Just go home again, but come back tomorrow at this time, and bring a  large cloth with you, and then all will be well."
So he turned back again, but the bees flew to the royal palace and  straight into it through the open windows, crept into every corner, and  inspected everything most carefully. Then they hurried back and modeled  the palace in wax so quickly that anyone looking on would have thought it  was growing before his eyes. By the evening all was ready, and when the  tailor came the next morning, the whole splendid building was there, and  not  one nail in the wall or tile on the roof was missing. And at the same time  it was delicate and white as snow, and smelled sweet as honey. The tailor  wrapped it carefully in his cloth and took it to the king, who could not  admire it enough, placed it in his largest hall, and in return for it  presented the tailor with a large stone house.
The shoemaker, however, did not give up, but went for the third time to  the king and said, "Your majesty, the tailor has heard that no water will  spring up in the castle's courtyard, but he has boasted that he can create  a fountain in the middle of the courtyard as tall as a man and as clear as  crystal."
Then the king ordered the tailor to be brought before him and said, "If a  stream of water does not rise in my courtyard by tomorrow as you have  promised, in that very place the executioner shall make you shorter by a  head."
The poor tailor did not take long to think about it, but hurried out to  the gate, and because this time it was a matter of life and death to him,  tears rolled down his face.
While he was thus sorrowfully going forth, the foal to which he had  formerly given its liberty, and which had now become a beautiful chestnut  horse, came leaping towards him. "The time has come," it said to the  tailor, "when I can repay you for your good deed. I already know what you  need, and you shall soon have help. Climb on; my back can carry two of  you."
The tailor's courage came back to him. He jumped up in one bound, and the  horse went full speed into the city, and immediately to the castle's  courtyard. It galloped as quick as lightning three times around it, the  third time falling down. At that instant there was a terrific clap of  thunder, a fragment of earth in the middle of the courtyard sprang like a  cannonball into the air and over the castle. Directly afterward a jet of  water rose as high as a man on horseback, and the water was as pure as  crystal, and the sunbeams began to dance on it. When the king saw this he  arose in amazement, and went and embraced the tailor in the sight of all  men.
But good fortune did not last long. The king had daughters aplenty, each  one more beautiful than the others, but he had no son. So the malicious  shoemaker went to the king a fourth time, and said, "Your majesty, the  tailor has not given up his arrogance. He has now boasted that if he  liked, he could cause a son to be brought to his majesty through the air."
The king summoned the tailor and said, "If you cause a son to be brought  to me within nine days, you shall have my eldest daughter to wife."
"The reward is indeed great," thought the little tailor. "One would  willingly do something for it, but the cherries grow too high for me. If I  climb for them, the branch will break beneath me, and I shall fall."
He went home, seated himself cross-legged on his worktable, and thought  over what was to be done. "It can't be managed," he cried at last. "I will  go away after all. I cannot live in peace here."
He tied up his bundle and hurried away to the gate. When he got to the  meadow, he perceived his old friend the stork, who was walking backwards  and forwards like a philosopher. Sometimes he stood still, looking closely  at a frog, than finally swallowing it down. The stork came to him and  greeted  him.
"I see," he began, "that you have your pack on your back. Why are you  leaving town?"
The tailor told him what the king had required of him, and how he could  not perform it, and lamented his misfortune.
"Don't let that turn your hair gray," said the stork, "I will help you out  of your difficulty. For a long time now, I have been carrying infant  children into the city, so this time, I can fetch a little prince out of  the well. Go home and take it easy. Nine days from now go to the royal  palace, and I will arrive there as well."
The little tailor went home, and at the appointed time was at the castle.  Not long afterward the stork flew up and tapped at the window. The tailor  opened it, and cousin longlegs came in carefully and walked with solemn  steps over the smooth marble pavement. In his beak he had a baby that was  as lovely as an angel, and who stretched out his little hands to the  queen. The stork laid him in her lap, and she caressed him and kissed him,  and was beside herself with delight. Before flying away, the stork took  his traveling bag off his back and handed it to the queen. In it  there were little paper parcels with colored sweets, and they were divided  amongst the little princesses. The eldest, however, received none of them,  but instead got the merry tailor for a husband.
"It seems to me," he said, "that I have won the highest prize. My mother  was right after all. She always said that whoever trusts in God and has  only good luck can never fail."
The shoemaker had to make the shoes in which the little tailor danced at  the wedding festival, after which he was commanded to quit the town for  ever. The road to the forest led him to the gallows. Worn out with anger,  rage, and the heat of the day, he threw himself down. When he had closed  his eyes and was about to sleep, the two crows flew down from the heads of  the men who were hanging there and pecked his eyes out. In his madness he  ran into the forest and must have died there of hunger, for no one has  seen him or heard of him again.



Hans-My-Hedgehog

Then his wife had a baby, and the top half was a hedgehog and the bottom half a boy. When she saw the baby, she was horrified and said, "Now see what you have wished upon us!"
The man said, "It cannot be helped. The boy must be baptized, but we cannot ask anyone to be his godfather."
The woman said, "And the only name that we can give him is Hans-My-Hedgehog."
When he was baptized, the pastor said, "Because of his quills he cannot be given an ordinary bed." So they put a little straw behind the stove and laid him in it. And he could not drink from his mother, for he would have stuck her with his quills. He lay there behind the stove for eight years, and his father grew tired of him, and thought, "if only he would die." But he did not die, but just lay there.
Now it happened that there was a fair in the city, and the peasant wanted to go. He asked his wife what he should bring her.
"A little meat, some bread rolls, and things for the household," she said. Then he asked the servant girl, and she wanted a pair of slippers and some fancy stockings.
Finally, he also said, "Hans-My-Hedgehog, what would you like?"
"Father," he said, "bring me some bagpipes."
When the peasant returned home he gave his wife what he had brought for her, meat and bread rolls. Then he gave the servant girl the slippers and fancy stockings. And finally he went behind the stove and gave Hans-My-Hedgehog the bagpipes.
When Hans-My-Hedgehog had them, he said, "Father, go to the blacksmith's and have my cock-rooster shod, then I will ride away and never again come back." The father was happy to get rid of him, so he had his rooster shod, and when it was done, Hans-My-Hedgehog climbed on it and rode away. He took pigs and donkeys with him, to tend in the forest.
In the forest the rooster flew into a tall tree with him. There he sat and watched over the donkeys and the pigs. He sat there for years, until finally the herd had grown large. His father knew nothing about him. While sitting in the tree, he played his bagpipes and made beautiful music.
One day a king came by. He was lost and heard the music. He was amazed to hear it, and sent a servant to look around and see where it was coming from. He looked here and there but only saw a little animal sitting high in a tree. It looked like a rooster up there with a hedgehog sitting on it making the music.
The king said to the servant that he should ask him why he was sitting there, and if he knew the way back to his kingdom. Then Hans-My-Hedgehog climbed down from the tree and told him that he would show him the way if the king would promise in writing to give him the first thing that greeted him at the royal court upon his arrival home.
The king thought, "I can do that easily enough. Hans-My-Hedgehog cannot understand writing, and I can put down what I want to."
Then the king took pen and ink and wrote something, and after he had done so, Hans-My-Hedgehog showed him the way, and he arrived safely at home. His daughter saw him coming from afar, and was so overjoyed that she ran to meet him and kissed him. He thought about Hans-My-Hedgehog and told her what had happened, that he was supposed to have promised the first thing that greeted him to a strange animal that rode a rooster and made beautiful music. But instead he had written that this would not happen, for Hans-My-Hedgehog could not read. The princess was happy about this, and said that it was a good thing, for she would not have gone with him in any event.
Hans-My-Hedgehog tended the donkeys and pigs, was of good cheer, and sat in the tree blowing on his bagpipes.
Now it happened that another king came this way with his servants and messengers. He too got lost and did not know the way back home because the forest was so large. He too heard the beautiful music from afar, and asked one of his messengers to go and see what it was and where it was coming from. The messenger ran to the tree where he saw Hans-My-Hedgehog astride the cock-rooster. The messenger asked him what he was doing up there.
"I am tending my donkeys and pigs. What is it that you want?" replied Hans-My-Hedgehog.
The messenger said that they were lost and could not find their way back to their kingdom, and asked him if he could not show them the way.
Then Hans-My-Hedgehog climbed down from the tree with his rooster and told the old king that he would show him the way if he would give him the thing that he first met at home before the royal castle.
The king said yes and signed a promise to Hans-My-Hedgehog.
When that was done, Hans-My-Hedgehog rode ahead on his rooster showing them the way, and the king safely reached his kingdom. When the king arrived at his court there was great joy. Now he had an only daughter who was very beautiful. She ran out to him, threw her arms around his neck and kissed him, and was ever so happy that her old father had returned.
She asked him where he had been during his long absence, and he told her how he had lost his way and almost not made it home again, but that as he was making his way through a great forest he had come upon a half hedgehog, half human astride a rooster sitting in a tall tree and making beautiful music who had shown him the way, but whom he had promised whatever first met him at the royal court, and it was she herself, and he was terribly sorry.
But she promised that she would go with him when he came, for the love of her old father.
Hans-My-Hedgehog tended his pigs, and the pigs had more pigs, until there were so many that the whole forest was full. Then Hans-My-Hedgehog let his father know that they should empty out all the stalls in the village, because he was coming with such a large herd of pigs that everyone who wanted to would be able to take part in the slaughter.
It saddened the father to hear this, for he thought that Hans-My-Hedgehog had long since died. But Hans-My-Hedgehog mounted his cock-rooster, drove the pigs ahead of himself into the village, and had them butchered. What a slaughter! What a commotion! They could hear the noise two hours away!
Afterward Hans-My-Hedgehog said, "Father, have my cock-rooster shod a second time at the blacksmith's. Then I will ride away and not come back again as long as I live." So the father had the cock-rooster shod, and was happy that Hans-My-Hedgehog was not coming back.
Hans-My-Hedgehog rode into the first kingdom. The king had ordered that if anyone should approach who was carrying bagpipes and riding on a rooster, that he should be shot at, struck down, and stabbed, to prevent him from entering the castle. Thus when Hans-My-Hedgehog rode up, they attacked him with bayonets, but he spurred his rooster on, flew over the gate and up to the king's window. Landing there, he shouted to him, to give him what he had promised, or it would cost him and his daughter their lives.
Then the king told the princess to go out to him, in order to save his life and her own as well. She put on a white dress, and her father gave her a carriage with six horses, magnificent servants, money, and property. She climbed aboard and Hans-My-Hedgehog took his place beside her with his rooster and bagpipes. They said farewell and drove off.
The king thought that he would never see them again. However, it did not go as he thought it would, for when they had traveled a short distance from the city, Hans-My-Hedgehog pulled off her beautiful clothes and stuck her with his quills until she was bloody all over. "This is the reward for your deceit. Go away. I do not want you." With that he sent her back home, and she was cursed as long as she lived.
Hans-My-Hedgehog, astride his cock-rooster and carrying his bagpipes, rode on to the second kingdom where he had also helped the king find his way. This one, in contrast, had ordered that if anyone looking like Hans-My-Hedgehog should arrive, he should be saluted and brought to the royal castle with honors and with a military escort.
When the princess saw him she was horrified, because he looked so strange, but she thought that nothing could be done about it, because she had promised her father to go with him. She welcomed Hans-My-Hedgehog, and they were married. Then he was taken to the royal table, and she sat next to him while they ate and drank.
That evening when it was time to go to bed, she was afraid of his quills, but he told her to have no fear, for he would not hurt her. He told the old king to have four men keep watch by their bedroom door. They should make a large fire. He said that he would take off his hedgehog skin after going into the bedroom, and before getting into bed. The men should immediately pick it up and throw it into the fire, and then stay there until it was completely consumed by the fire.
When the clock struck eleven, he went into the bedroom, took off the hedgehog skin, and laid it down by the bed. The men rushed in, grabbed it, and threw it into the fire, and as soon as the fire consumed it, he was redeemed, and he lay there in bed entirely in the shape of a human. But he was as black as coal, as though he had been charred. The king sent for his physician, who washed him with good salves and balms. Then he became white and was a handsome young gentleman.
When the princess saw what had happened, she was overjoyed, and they got up and ate and drank. Now their wedding was celebrated for real, and Hans-My-Hedgehog inherited the old king's kingdom.
Some years later he traveled with his wife to his father, and said that he was his son. But the father said that he did not have a son. He had had one, but he had been born with quills like a hedgehog and had gone off into the world. Then he said that he was the one, and the old father rejoiced and returned with him to his kingdom.


The Burial Shirt

A mother had a little boy of seven years who was so attractive and good natured that no one could look at him without liking him, and he was dearer to her than anything else in the world. He suddenly died, and the mother could find no solace. She cried day and night. However, soon after his burial, the child began to appear every night at those places where he had sat and played while still alive. When the mother cried, he cried as well, but when morning came he had disappeared.
The mother did not cease crying, and one night he appeared with the white shirt in which he had been laid into his coffin, and with the little wreath on his head. He sat down on the bed at her feet and said, "Oh, mother, please stop crying, or I will not be able to fall asleep in my coffin, because my burial shirt will not dry out from your tears that keep falling on it." This startled the mother, and she stopped crying.

The Jew in the Thorns

When his year was over, his master gave him no wages, thinking, "That is the smartest thing to do, for it will save me something. He won't leave me, but will gladly stay here working for me."
The servant said nothing, but did his work the second year as he had done before, and when at the end of this year he again received no wages, he still stayed on without complaining. When the third year had passed, the master thought it over, then put his hand into his pocket, but pulled out nothing.
However, this time the servant said, "Master, I have served you honestly for three years. Be so good as to give me what by rights I have coming to me. I would like to be on my way and see something else of the world."
"Yes, my good servant," answered the old miser, "you have served me without complaint, and you shall be kindly rewarded."
With this he put his hand into his pocket, then counted out three hellers one at a time, saying, "There, you have a heller for each year. That is a large and generous reward. Only a few masters would pay you this much."
The good servant, who understood little about money, put his wealth into his pocket, and thought, "Ah, now that I have a full purse, why should I worry and continue to plague myself with hard work?"
So he set forth, uphill and down, singing and jumping for joy.
Now it came to pass that as he was passing by a thicket a little dwarf stepped out, and called to him, "Where are you headed, Brother Merry? You don't seem to be burdened down with cares."
"Why should I be sad?" answered the servant. "I have everything I need. Three years' wages are jingling in my pocket.
"How much is your treasure?" the dwarf asked him.
"How much? Three hellers in real money, precisely counted."
"Listen," said the dwarf, "I am a poor and needy man. Give me your three hellers. I can no longer work, but you are young and can easily earn your bread."
Now because the servant had a good heart and felt pity for the dwarf, he gave him his three hellers, saying, "In God's name, I won't miss them."
Then the dwarf said, "Because I see that you have a good heart I will grant you three wishes, one for each heller. They shall all be fulfilled."
"Aha," said the servant. "You are a miracle worker. Well, then, if it is to be so, first of all I wish for a blowpipe that will hit everything I aim at; second, for a fiddle, that when I play it, anyone who hears it will have to dance; and third, that whenever I ask a favor of anyone, it will be granted."
"You shall have all that," said the dwarf. He reached into the bush, and what do you think, there lay a fiddle and a blowpipe, all ready, just as if they had been ordered. He gave them to the servant, saying, "No one will ever be able to deny any request that you might make."
"What more could my heart desire?" said the servant to himself, and went merrily on his way.
Soon afterward he met a Jew with a long goatee, who was standing listening to a bird singing high up in the top of a tree.
"One of God's own miracles," he shouted, "that such a small creature should have such a fearfully loud voice. If only it were mine! If only someone would sprinkle some salt on its tail!"
"If that is all you want," said the servant, "then the bird shall soon be down here." He took aim, hit it precisely, and the bird fell down into a thorn hedge.
"Rogue," he said to the Jew, "Go and fetch the bird out for yourself."
"My goodness," said the Jew, "don't call me a rogue, sir, but I will be the dog and get the bird out for myself. After all, you're the one who shot it."
Then he lay down on the ground and began crawling into the thicket. When he was in the middle of the thorns, the good servant could not resist the temptation to pick up his fiddle and begin to play.
The Jew's legs immediately began to move, and he jumped up. The more the servant fiddled the better went the dance. However, the thorns ripped apart the Jew's shabby coat, combed his beard, and pricked and pinched him all over his body.
"My goodness," cried the Jew, "what do I want with your fiddling? Stop playing, sir. I don't want to dance."
But the servant did not listen to him, and thought, "You have fleeced people often enough, and now the thorn hedge shall do the same to you." He began to play all over again, so that the Jew had to jump even higher, leaving scraps from his coat hanging on the thorns.
"Oh, woe is me!" cried the Jew. "I will give the gentleman anything he asks, if only he quits fiddling, even a purse filled with gold."
"If you are so generous," said the servant, "then I will stop my music. But I must praise the singular way that you dance to it." Then he took his purse he went on his way.
The Jew stood there quietly watching the servant until he was far off and out of sight, and then he screamed out with all his might, "You miserable musician, you beer-house fiddler! Wait until I catch you alone. I will chase you until you wear the soles off your shoes. You ragamuffin, just put a groschen in your mouth, so that you will be worth six hellers." He continued to curse as fast as he could speak. As soon as he had thus refreshed himself a little, and caught his breath again, he ran into the town to the judge.
"Judge, sir," he said, "Oh, woe is me! See how a godless man has robbed me and abused me on the open road. A stone on the ground would feel sorry for me. My clothes are ripped into shreds. My body is pricked and scratched to pieces. And what little I owned has been taken away with my purse -- genuine ducats, each piece more beautiful than the others. For God's sake, let the man be thrown into prison."
The judge asked, "Was it a soldier who cut you up like that with his saber?"
"God forbid," said the Jew. "He didn't have a naked dagger, but rather a blowpipe hanging from his back, and a fiddle from his neck. The scoundrel can easily be recognized."
The judge sent his people out after him. They found the good servant, who had been walking along quite slowly. And they found the purse with the money on him as well.
When he was brought before the judge he said, "I did not touch the Jew, nor take his money. He offered it to me freely, so that I would stop fiddling, because he could not stand my music."
"God forbid!" cried the Jew. "He is reaching for lies like flies on the wall."
The judge did not believe his story, and said, "That is a poor excuse. No Jew would do that." And because he had committed robbery on the open road, the good servant was sentenced to the gallows.
As he was being led away, the Jew screamed after him, "You good-for-nothing. You dog of a musician. Now you will receive your well earned reward."
The servant walked quietly up the ladder with the hangman, but on the last rung he turned around and said to the judge, "Grant me just one request before I die."
"Yes," said the judge, "if you do not ask for your life."
"I do not ask for life," answered the servant, "but let me play my fiddle one last time."
The Jew cried out miserably, "For God's sake, do not allow it! Do not allow it!"
But the judge said, "Why should I not grant him this short pleasure? It has been promised to him, and he shall have it." In any event, he could not have refused because of the gift that had been bestowed on the servant.
The Jew cried, "Oh, woe is me! Tie me up. Tie me up tightly."
The good servant took his fiddle from his neck, and made ready. As he played the first stroke, they all began to quiver and shake: the judge, the clerks, and the court officials. The rope fell out of the hand of the one who was going to tie up the Jew.
At the second stroke they all lifted their legs. The hangman released the good servant and made ready to dance.
At the third stroke everyone jumped up and began to dance. The judge and the Jew were out in front and were the best at jumping. Soon everyone who had gathered in the marketplace out of curiosity was dancing with them, old and young, fat and thin, all together with each other. Even the dogs that had run along with the crowd stood up on their hind legs and hopped along as well. The longer he played, the higher the dancers jumped, until they were knocking their heads together and crying out terribly.
Finally the judge, quite out of breath, shouted, "I will give you your life, but just stop fiddling."
The good servant listened to this, then took his fiddle, hung it around his neck again, and climbed down the ladder. He went up to the Jew, who was lying upon the ground gasping for air, and said, "You rogue, now confess where you got the money, or I will take my fiddle off my neck and begin to play again."
"I stole it. I stole it," he cried. "But you have honestly earned it."
With that the judge had the Jew led to the gallows and hanged as a thief.

Fair Katrinelje and Pif Paf Poltrie

"Many thanks, Pif Paf Poltrie."
"May I marry your daughter?"
"Oh, yes, if her mother Milk-Cow, her brother High-Pride, her sister Cheese-Love, and Fair Katrinelje are willing, the wedding can take place."
"Where is her mother Milk-Cow, then?"
"She is in the stall milking the cow."
"Good day, Mother Milk-Cow."
"Many thanks, Pif Paf Poltrie."
"May I marry your daughter?"
"Oh, yes, if Father Elderberry-Tea, Brother High-Pride, Sister Cheese-Love, and Fair Katrinelje are willing, the wedding can take place."
"Where is her brother High-Pride, then?"
"He is in the shed chopping wood."
"Good-day, Brother High-Pride."
"Many thanks, Pif Paf Poltrie."
"May I marry your sister?"
"Oh, yes, if Father Elderberry-Tea, Mother Milk-Cow, Sister Cheese-Love, and Fair Katrinelje are willing, the wedding can take place."
"Where is her sister Cheese-Love, then?"
"She is in the garden cutting cabbages."
"Good-day, Sister Cheese-Love."
"Many thanks, Pif Paf Poltrie."
"May I marry your sister?"
"Oh, yes, if Father Elderberry-Tea, Mother Milk-Cow, Brother High-Pride, and Fair Katrinelje are willing, the wedding can take place."
"Where is Fair Katrinelje, then."
"She is in the parlor counting out her pennies."
"Good day, Fair Katrinelje."
"Many thanks, Pif Paf Poltrie."
"Will you be my sweetheart?"
"Oh, yes, if Father Elderberry-Tea, Mother Milk-Cow, Brother High-Pride, and Sister Cheese-Love are willing, the wedding can take place."
"Fair Katrinelje, what do you have for a dowry?"
"Fourteen pennies in hand, three and a half groschen owed to me, a half pound of dried pears, a handful of pretzels, and a handful of roots, and so it is. Is that not a fine dowry?
"Pif Paf Poltrie, what is your trade? Are you a tailor?"
"Much better than that."
"A cobbler?"
"Much better than that."
"A plowman?"
"Much better than that."
"A joiner?"
"Much better than that."
"A smith?"
"Much better than that."
"A miller?"
"Much better than that."
"Perhaps a broom-maker?"
"Yes, that is what I am. Is that not a fine trade?"

The Little Lamb and the Little Fish

It so happened that the two of them were playing with other children in  a meadow in front their house. There was a pond in the meadow that came up  to one side of the house. The children ran around it, caught one another,  and played a counting out game:

While playing this game they stood in a circle, and the one to whom  they were pointing when they said "cut them up" had to run away, and all  the others would run after him and catch him. While they were thus running  about so joyfully the stepmother was watching them from the window, and  grew angry. Because she understood the art of witchcraft she bewitched  them both, transforming the little brother into a fish, and the little  sister into a lamb.
The little fish swam back and forth in the pond and was sad, and the  little lamb walked back and forth in the meadow and was sad, and would not  eat. She would not even touch one blade of grass. Thus a long time passed,  and then some strangers came as guests to the castle.
The treacherous stepmother thought, "Now is my chance," and called the  cook and said to him, "Go and fetch the lamb from the meadow and slaughter  it. We have nothing else for our guests."
The cook went and got the little lamb, took her into the kitchen, and  tied her feet together. She bore all this patiently. The cook then took  out his knife and was whetting it on the doorstep in order to kill the  little lamb when he saw how a little fish was swimming back and forth in  the water in front of the gutter and looking up at him. This was the  little brother, for when the little fish saw the cook take the little lamb  away, he followed them, swimming along the pond as far as the house.
Then the little lamb cried down to him:

The little fish answered:

When the cook heard that the little lamb could speak, saying such sad  words to the little fish down below, he was frightened and thought that  this could not be an ordinary little lamb, but must have been bewitched by  the wicked woman in the house.
He said, "Don't worry. I won't kill you."
Then he took another animal and prepared it for the guests, after which  he took the little lamb to a good peasant woman and told her everything  that he had seen and heard.
Now this peasant woman had been the wet nurse for the little sister,  and she suspected at once who the little lamb was, and took him with her  to a wise woman. The wise woman pronounced a blessing over the little lamb  and the little fish, and they regained their human forms. After this she  took them both to a little hut in a large forest, where they lived by  themselves, contented and happy.

The Three Lazy Ones

When the time came for him to die he called them to his bed and said,  "Dear children, I have thought of something that I will  reveal to you.  The one of you is the laziest shall become king after me."
The oldest one said, "Father, then the kingdom belongs to me, for I am  so lazy that whenever I lie down to sleep, and a drop falls into my eyes,  I will not even close them so that I can fall asleep."
The second one said, "Father, the kingdom belongs to me, for I am so  lazy that when I am sitting by the fire warming myself, I would rather let  my heels burn up than to pull my legs back."
The third one said, "Father, the kingdom is mine, for I am so lazy that  if I were going to be hanged and already had the rope around my neck, and  someone put into my hand a sharp knife with which to cut the rope, I would  let myself be hanged rather than to lift my hand up to the rope."
When the father heard this he said, "You have taken it the farthest and  shall be king."

The Blue Light

Once upon a time there was a soldier who had served the king loyally  for many long years. When the war was  over and the soldier could no longer serve because of the many wounds he  had received, the king said to him, "You  can go home now. I no longer need you. There will be no more money for  you, because wages are only for those  who earn them."
Because the soldier did not know how he could earn a living, he sadly  walked the whole day long, until he  came to a forest in the evening. As darkness fell he saw a light. He  approached it and came to a little house, where  a witch lived. "Give me a night's shelter and a little to eat and drink,"  he said to her, "otherwise I will perish."
"Oho!" she answered. "Who gives anything to a runaway soldier? But I  will have pity and take you in after all, if  you will do what I ask of you."
"What do you want?" asked the soldier.
"For you to dig up my garden tomorrow."
The soldier agreed, and the next day he worked with all his might, but  could not finish before evening. "I see,"  said the witch, "that you can do no more work today. I will take you in  for one more night if tomorrow you will cut  up and split a stack of wood for me."
The soldier took the entire day to do this, and that evening the witch  proposed that he remain a third night.  "Tomorrow I have only a small task for you. Behind my house there is a dry  well into which my light has fallen. It  burns blue and never goes out. I want you to get it for me."
The next day the old woman led him to the well and lowered him down it  in a basket. He found the blue light  and gave a sign that she should pull him up again. And she did pull him  up, but when he was close to the edge, she  wanted to take the blue light from him. "No," he said, sensing her evil  thoughts, "I shall not give you the light until  I am standing on the ground with both feet."
Then the witch became furious, let him fall back into the well, and  walked away. The poor soldier fell to the  damp floor without being injured. The blue light continued to burn, but  how could that help him? He saw that  would not be able to escape death. He sadly sat there for a while. Then he  happened to reach into his pocket and  found his tobacco pipe, which was still half full. "This will be your last  pleasure," he thought, pulled it out, lit it  with the blue light, and began to smoke.
After the fumes had wafted about the cavern, suddenly there stood  before him a little black dwarf, who said,  "Master, what do you command?"
"Why should I command you?" replied the bewildered soldier.
"I must do everything that you demand," said the dwarf."
"Good," said the soldier, "then first help me out of this well."
The dwarf took him by the hand and led him through an underground  passage, and he did not forget to take  the blue light with him. Along the way he showed him the treasures that  the witch had collected and hidden  there, and the soldier took as much gold as he could carry. When he was  above ground, he said to the dwarf, "Now  go and bind the old witch and take her to the judge."
Not long afterward she came riding by on a tomcat as fast as the wind  and screaming horribly. And not long  after that the dwarf was back. "It is all taken care of," he said. "The  witch is hanging on the gallows. Master, what  do you command now?"
"Nothing at the moment," answered the soldier. "You can go home, but be  ready when I call you."
"It is only necessary," said the dwarf, "for you to light your pipe  with the blue light, and I will be with you."  With that he disappeared before his very eyes.
The soldier returned to the city from which he had come. He moved into  the best inn and had beautiful  clothes made for himself. Then he told the innkeeper to furnish his room  as luxuriously as possible. When it was  finished he summoned the black dwarf and said, "I served the king loyally,  but he sent me away to starve. For this  I now want revenge."
"What am I to do?" asked the little man.
"Late this evening, when the king's daughter is lying in bed, bring her  here to me in her sleep. She shall do  maid service for me."
The dwarf said, "That is an easy thing for me, but a dangerous thing  for you. If you are found out, it will not go  well for you."
At the strike of twelve the door opened, and the dwarf carried the  king's daughter in.
"Aha, is that you?" cried the soldier. "Get to work now! Go fetch the  broom and sweep the room." When she  was finished he called her to his chair, stuck his feet out at her, and  said, "Pull off my boots," then threw them in  her face, and she had to pick them up and clean them and make them shine.  She did everything that he ordered  her to do, without resisting, silently, and with half-closed eyes. At the  first cock's crow, the dwarf carried her to the  royal palace and back to her bed.
The next morning, after the king's daughter had gotten up, she went to  her father and told him that she had  had an amazing dream. "I was carried away through the streets as fast as  lightning and taken to a soldier's room. I  had to serve as his maid and wait on him and do common work, sweep the  room, and clean his boots. It was only a  dream, but still I am as tired as if I had really done it all."
"The dream could have been true," said the king. "I will give you some  advice. Fill your pocket with peas, then  make a small hole in your pocket. If you are carried away again, they will  fall out and leave a track on the  street."
As the king was thus speaking, the dwarf was invisibly standing nearby  and heard everything.
That night when he once again carried the sleeping princess through the  streets, a few peas did indeed fall out  of her pocket, but they did not leave a track, because the cunning dwarf  had already scattered peas in all the  streets. And once again the king's daughter had to do maid service until  the cock crowed.
The next morning the king sent his people out to look for the track,  but it was to no end, for in all the streets  there were poor children gathering peas and saying, "Last night it rained  peas."
"We must think of something else," said the king. "Leave your shoes on  when you go to bed, and before you  return from there, hide one of them. I will be sure to find it."
The black dwarf overheard this proposal, and that evening when the  soldier again wanted the king's daughter  brought to him, the dwarf advised him against this, saying that he had no  way to protect him against such  trickery. If the shoe were to be found in his room, it would not go well  with him.
"Do what I tell you," replied the soldier, and for a third night the  king's daughter had to work like a maid. But  before she was carried back, she hid a shoe under the bed.
The next morning the king had the entire city searched for the shoe,  and it was found in the soldier's room.  The soldier himself, following the little man's request, was already  outside the city gate, but they soon overtook  him and threw him into prison.
In his haste, he had forgotten to take along his most valuable things:  the blue light and the gold. He had only  one ducat in his pocket. Standing at the window of his prison and weighted  down with chains, he saw one of his  comrades walking by. He knocked on the glass, and as he walked by, he  said, "Be so good and bring me the little  bundle that I left at the inn. I'll give you a ducat for it."
The comrade ran forth and brought back the desired things. As soon as  the soldier was alone again, he lit his  pipe and summoned the black dwarf. "Have no fear," he said to his master.  "Just go where they lead you, and let  everything happen, but take the blue light with you."
The next day the soldier was tried, and although he had done nothing  wrong, the judge still sentenced him to  death. As he was being led out, he asked the king for one last wish.
"What sort of a wish?" asked the king.
"That I might smoke one more pipe on the way."
"You can smoke three," answered the king, "but do not think that I will  let you live."
Then the soldier pulled out his pipe and lit it with the blue light. As  soon as a few rings of smoke had risen,  the dwarf was standing there. He had a cudgel in his hand and said, "What  does my master command?"
"Strike the false judges and their henchmen to the ground for me. And  don't spare the king either, who has  treated me so badly."
Then the dwarf took off like lightning, zip-zap, back and forth, and  everyone he even touched with his cudgel  fell to the ground and did not dare to move. The king became afraid. He  begged for mercy, and in order to save his  life, he gave to the soldier his kingdom as well as his daughter for a  wife.


The Willful Child
Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm



The Nixie in the Pond

One morning he got up before daybreak and went outside, thinking that  the fresh air would lighten his heart. As he was walking across the mill  dam, the first sunbeam was just appearing, and he heard something rippling  in the pond.
Turning around, he saw a beautiful woman rising slowly out of the  water. Her long hair, which she was holding above her shoulders with her  soft hands, flowed down on both sides, and covered her white body.  He saw  very well that she was the nixie of the pond, and he was so frightened  that he did not know whether to run away or stay where he was. But the  nixie, speaking with a soft voice, called him by name and asked him why he  was so sad.
At first the miller was speechless, but when he heard her speak so  kindly, he took heart and told her how he had lived with good fortune and  wealth, but that now he was so poor that he did not know what to do.
"Be at ease," answered the nixie. "I will make you richer and happier  than you have ever been before. You must only promise to give me that  which has just been born in your house."
"What else can that be," thought the miller, "but a young dog or a  young cat," and he promised her what she demanded.
The nixie descended into the water again, and consoled and in good  spirits he hurried back to his mill. He had not yet arrived there when the  maid came out of the front door and called out to him that he should  rejoice, for his wife had given birth to a little boy.
The miller stood there as though he had been struck by lightning. He  saw very well that the cunning nixie had known this and had cheated him.  With his head lowered he went to his wife's bed. When she said, "Why are  you not happy with the beautiful boy?" he told her what had happened to  him, and what kind of a promise he had given to the nixie.
"What good to me are good fortune and prosperity," he added, "if I am  to lose my child? But what can I do?"
Even the relatives who had come to congratulate them did not have any  advice for him.
In the meantime, good fortune returned to the miller's house. He  succeeded in everything that he undertook. It was as though the trunks and  strongboxes filled themselves of their own accord, and as though money in  a chest multiplied overnight. Before long his wealth was greater than it  had ever been before. However, it did not bring him happiness without  concern, for his agreement with the nixie tormented his heart. Whenever he  passed the pond he feared she might appear and demand payment of his debt.
He never allowed the boy himself to go near the water. "Beware!" he  said to him. "If you touch the water a hand will appear, take hold of you,  and pull you under."
However, year after year passed, and the nixie made no further  appearance, so the miller began to feel at ease.
The boy grew up to be a young man and was apprenticed to a huntsman.  When he had learned this trade and had become a skilled huntsman, the lord  of the village took him into his service. In the village there lived a  beautiful and faithful maiden whom the huntsman liked, and when his master  noticed this, he gave him a little house. The two were married, lived  peacefully and happily, and loved each other sincerely.
One day the huntsman was pursuing a deer. When the animal ran out of  the woods and into an open field he followed it and finally brought it  down with a single shot.
He did not notice that he was in the vicinity of the dangerous  millpond, and after he had dressed out the deer, he went to the water in  order to wash his blood-stained hands. However, he had scarcely dipped  them into the water when the nixie emerged. Laughing, she wrapped her wet  arms around him, then pulled him under so quickly that waves splashed over  him.
When it was evening and the huntsman did not return home, his wife  became frightened. She went out to look for him. He had often told her  that he had to be on his guard against the nixie's snares, and that he did  not dare to go near the millpond, so she already suspected what had  happened. She hurried to the water, and when she found his hunting bag  lying on the bank, she could no longer have any doubt of the misfortune.  Crying and wringing her hands, she called her beloved by name, but to no  avail. She hurried across to the other side of the millpond, and called  him anew. She cursed the nixie with harsh words, but no answer followed.  The surface of the water remained calm; only the moon's half face stared  steadily back up at her.
The poor woman did not leave the pond. With fast strides, never  stopping to rest, she walked around it again and again, sometimes in  silence, sometimes crying out loudly, sometimes sobbing softly. Finally  her strength gave out, and she sank down to the ground, falling into a  heavy sleep. She was soon immersed in a dream.
At that moment, the poor woman awoke. It was already daylight, and she  decided at once to follow her dream. With difficulty she climbed the  mountain, and everything was just as she had seen it during the night. The  old woman received her kindly, showing her a chair where she was to sit.
"You must have met with misfortune," she said, "having sought out my  lonely cottage."
The woman related with tears what had happened to her.
"Be comforted," said the old woman. "I will help you. Here is a golden  comb for you. Wait until the full moon has risen, then go to the millpond,  sit down on the bank and comb your long black hair with this comb. When  you are finished set it down on the bank, and you will see what will  happen."
The woman returned home, but the time passed slowly for her until the  full moon came. Finally the shining disk appeared in the heaven, and she  went out to the millpond, sat down, and combed her long black hair with  the golden comb. When she was finished she set it down at the water's  edge. Before long there came a motion from beneath the water. A wave  arose, rolled onto the bank, and carried the comb away with it. In not  more time than it took for the comb to sink to the bottom, the surface of  the water parted, and the huntsman's head emerged. He said nothing, only  looking at his wife with sorrowful glances. That same instant a second  wave rushed up and covered her husband's head. Then everything vanished.  The millpond lay as peaceful as before, with only the face of the full  moon shining on it.
Filled with sorrow, the woman returned, but she saw the old woman's  cottage in a dream.
The next morning she again set out and told her sorrows to the wise  woman. The old woman gave her a golden flute, and said, "Wait until the  full moon comes again, then take this flute. Sit on the bank and play a  beautiful tune on it. When you are finished set it in the sand. Then you  will see what will happen."
The woman did what the old woman had told her to do. No sooner was the  flute lying in the sand than there was a motion from beneath the water,  and a wave rushed up and carried the flute away with it. Immediately  afterwards the water parted, and not only her husband's head, but half of  his body emerged as well. He stretched out his arms longingly towards her,  but a second wave rushed up, covered him, and pulled him down again.
"Oh, what does it help me," said the unhappy woman, "for me only to see  my beloved and then to lose him again?"
Despair filled her heart anew, but a dream led her a third time to the  old woman's house. She went there, and the wise woman gave her a golden  spinning wheel, comforted her, and said, "Everything is not yet fulfilled.  Wait until the full moon comes, then take the spinning wheel, sit on the  bank, and spin the spool full. When you have done this place the spinning  wheel at the water's edge, and you will see what will happen."
The woman did everything exactly as she had been told. As soon as the  full moon appeared she carried the golden spinning wheel to the bank, and  span diligently until she was out of flax, and the spool was completely  filled with thread. She had scarcely placed the wheel on the bank when  there was a more violent motion than before from the water's depth. Then a  powerful wave rushed up and carried the wheel away with it.
Immediately the head and the whole body of her husband emerged in a  waterspout. He quickly jumped to the bank, caught his wife by the hand,  and fled. They had gone only a little distance when the entire millpond  arose with a terrible roar, then with terrible force streamed out across  the countryside. The fugitives saw death before their eyes, when the wife  in her terror called out for the old woman to help them, and they were  instantly transformed, she into a toad, he into a frog.
The flood which had overtaken them could not destroy them, but it  separated them and carried them far away. When the water receded and they  both reached dry land again, their human forms returned again, but neither  knew where the other one was. They found themselves among strange people  who did not know their native land. High mountains and deep valleys lay  between them. In order to earn a living, they both had to herd sheep. For  long years they drove their flocks through fields and woods, and were  filled with sorrow and longing.
One day when spring had once again broken forth on the earth, they both  went out with their flocks, and as chance would have it, they moved toward  one another. He saw a herd on a distant mountainside and drove his sheep  toward it. They met in a valley but did not recognize one another, but  they were happy that they were no longer so alone. From then on every day  they drove their flocks next to each other. They did not speak much, but  they did feel comforted.
One evening when the full moon was shining in the sky, and the sheep  were already at rest, the shepherd took his flute out of his pocket and  played on it a beautiful but sorrowful tune. When he had finished he saw  that the shepherdess was crying bitterly.
"Why are you crying? he asked.
"Oh," she answered, " the full moon was shining like this when I played  that tune on the flute for the last time, and my beloved's head emerged  out of the water."
He looked at her, and it was as though a veil fell from his eyes. He  recognized his beloved wife, and when she looked at him, with the moon  shining on his face, she recognized him as well. They embraced and kissed  one another, and no one needs to ask if they were happy.

The Seven Swabians

All seven had decided to travel throughout the world seeking adventure  and performing great deeds. In order to arm themselves and assure their  safety, they thought it would be a good thing to have a single, but very  strong and very long spear made for them. Together all seven of them took  hold of this spear. The bravest and most manly of them was in front, and  that had to be Herr Schulz. The others followed in order, with Veitli  bringing up the rear.
Now one day in the month of July, when they had walked a long way but  still had a good piece to go before reaching the village where they were  going to spend the night, it happened that they were in a meadow just as  it was getting dark, and a large beetle or hornet flew by them from behind  a bush, buzzing in a threatening manner.
Herr Schulz was so frightened that he almost let go of the spear, and a  cold sweat broke out over his whole body. "Listen, listen," he shouted to  his comrades. "Good heaven, I hear a drum!"
Jackli, who was holding the spear behind him, and who had just smelled  I don't know what, said, "Something is here for sure. I can smell the  powder and the fuses."
Hearing these words, Herr Schulz began to run away, and he quickly  jumped over a fence, landing right on the teeth of a rake that had been  left lying there from haymaking. The handle hit him in the face with a  tremendous blow.
"Oh dear, oh dear," screamed Master Schulz. "Take me prisoner! I  surrender! I surrender!"
The other six all jumped toward him, one over the other, screaming, "If  you surrender, I surrender too. If you surrender, I surrender too."
But no enemy was there to bind them and take them away, so they finally  saw that they had been deceived. To keep the story from getting out and  causing them to look foolish and to be ridiculed, they all swore to one  another that they would say nothing about it until one of them should open  his mouth by mistake.
Then they traveled onward.
The second danger that they experienced cannot be compared to the first  one. A few days later their path led them across an unplowed field where a  hare was sitting asleep in the sun. Its ears were standing straight up,  and its large glassy eyes were wide open.
All of them were frightened at the sight of this terrible wild beast,  and they discussed with one another what would be the least dangerous  thing to do. If they were to run away, they feared that the monster would  pursue them and devour them all, even their skin and hair.
So they said, "We will have to fight a great and dangerous battle. Well  begun is half done!"
Then all seven took hold of the spear, Herr Schulz in front and Veitli  at the rear. Herr Schulz was always trying to hold the spear back, but at  the rear Veitli had become quite brave, and wanted to break loose. He  shouted:
But Hans knew how to answer this, and he said:
Michal shouted:
Then it was Jergli's turn, and he said:
Then Marli had a good idea, and he said to Veitli:
Veitli, however, did not obey, and Jackli said:
Then Herrr Schulz took courage, and said:
Then all together they attacked the dragon. Herr Schulz crossed himself  and prayed to God for assistance, but none of this helped, so, approaching  the enemy, he screamed in great fear, "Oh, oh, oh, oh!"
This awakened the hare, and the frightened animal darted swiftly away.  When Herr Schulz saw it thus fleeing from the battlefield, he shouted out  joyfully:
Then the band of Swabians went in search of further adventure, and they  came to the Mosel, a mossy, still, deep river. There are only a few  bridges over it, and in many places people have to cross it by boat. The  seven Swabians did not know this, so they shouted to a man who was working  on the opposite side of the river, and asked him how to get across.
Because of the distance and their language, the man did not understand  what they wanted, and he asked, in the dialect of Trier, "Wat? Wat?"
Herr Schulz thought he was saying, "Wade. Wade through the water," and  because he was in front, he set forth and began walking into the Mosel.  Before long he sank into the mud and into the deep waves that were driving  against him. However, the wind blew his hat to the opposite shore. A frog  sat down beside it, and croaked, "wat, wat, wat."
The other six heard this from the other side and said, "Aha, our  comrade Herr Schulz is calling us. If he can wade across, then why can't  we?"
So in a rush and all together they jumped into the water and drowned.
Thus one frog took the lives of all six of them, and not one of the  band of Swabians ever came home again.

The Old Woman in the Woods

She began to weep bitterly, and said, "What can a poor girl like me do now? I do not know the way out of the woods. No human being lives here, so I'll most certainly starve to death."
She walked about looking for a pathway, but could not find one. When evening fell she sat down beneath a tree, commended herself to God, and decided to remain seated there and not go away, whatever might happen. After she had sat there a while, a little white dove flew up to her with a little golden key in its beak. It put the little key in her hand, saying, "Do you see that large tree over there? A little lock is on it. Open it with this little key, and you will find food enough to still your hunger."
Then she went to the tree and unlocked it, and found milk in a little bowl, and white bread to break into it, so that she could eat her fill. When she was satisfied, she said, "It is now the time when the hens at home go to roost, I am so tired that I would like to lie down in my bed as well."
Then the little dove flew to her again, bringing another little golden key in its bill. It said, "Open that tree over there, and you will find a bed."
She opened it, and found a beautiful white bed. Then she prayed to God for protection during the night, lay down, and fell asleep.
In the morning the little dove came for the third time, again bringing a little key. It said, "Open that tree over there, and you will find clothes."
Upon opening it she found garments trimmed with gold and with jewels, more splendid than those of any princess. Thus she lived there for some time. The little dove came every day, providing her with everything that she needed. It was a peaceful, good life.
Then one day the little dove came and said, "Will you do me a favor?"
"Gladly, with all my heart," said the girl.
Then the little dove said, "I will lead you to a little house. Go inside, where an old woman will be sitting by the fireplace. She will say, 'Good day.' But on your life do not answer her, in spite of whatever she might do. Pass by her on her right-hand side where there is a door. Open it and you will enter into a room where there are all kinds of rings lying on a table. Some of these are some splendid ones with glistening stones. Leave them where they are and seek out a simple one which must be among them, then bring it here to me as quickly as you can."
The girl went to the little house, and entered in at the door. An old woman was sitting there. When she saw the girl she glared at her and said, "Good day, my child."
The girl did not answer, but approached the door.
"Where are you going?" cried the old woman, and grabbed her skirt, trying to hold her fast. She said, "This is my house, and no one can go in there if I do not want them to."
But the girl said nothing, pulled away from her, and went directly into the room. On the table there was an enormous quantity of rings, which glistened and glittered before her eyes. She stirred through them looking for the simple one, but she could not find it. While she was thus seeking, she saw the old woman sneak by, trying to make off with a bird cage which she had in her hand. The girl went up to her and took the cage out of her hand. Lifting it up and looking inside it, she saw a bird with the simple ring in its beak.
She took the ring, and happily ran out of the house with it. She thought that the little white dove would come and get the ring, but it did not. Then she leaned against a tree, determined to wait for the dove. As she stood there, it seemed that the tree was becoming soft and flexible, and was letting its branches down.
Suddenly the branches wrapped themselves around her, and had become two arms. Looking around, she saw that the tree had turned into a handsome man, who embraced her and kissed her tenderly.
He said, "You have delivered me from the power of the old woman, who is a wicked witch. She had turned me into a tree, and for a few hours every day I was a white dove. As long as she possessed the ring I could not regain my human form."
Then his servants and his horses, who had likewise been changed into trees, were freed from the magic spell as we, and were standing there beside him. Then they traveled to his kingdom, for he was a prince, and they married, and lived happily.

Simeli Mountain

One day he was pushing his cart through the forest when off to the side  he saw a large bare mountain. He had never seen it before, so he stopped  and looked at it with amazement. While he was standing there he saw twelve  tall wild men approaching. Thinking that they were robbers, he pushed his  cart into the thicket, climbed up a tree, and waited to see what would  happen.
The twelve men went to the mountain and cried out, "Mount Semsi, Mount  Semsi, open up." The barren mountain immediately separated down the  middle. The twelve men walked into it, and as soon as they were inside it  shut.
A little while later it opened again, and the men came out carrying  heavy sacks on their backs. As soon as they were all back in the daylight  they said, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi, close." Then the mountain went back  together, and the entrance could no longer be seen. Then the twelve men  went away.
When they were completely out of sight, the poor man climbed down from  the tree. He was curious to know what secret was hidden in the mountain,  so he went up to it and said, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi, open up," and  the mountain opened up for him as well.
He went inside, and the entire mountain was a cavern full of silver and  gold, and in the back of the cavern there lay great piles of pearls and  sparkling jewels, piled up like grain. The poor man did not know what he  should do, whether or not he could take any of these treasures for  himself. At last he filled his pockets with gold, but he left the pearls  and precious stones lying where they were.
Upon leaving he too said, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi, close," and the  mountain closed. Then he went home with his cart.
He no longer had any cares, for with his gold he could buy bread for  his wife and children, and wine as well. He lived happily and honestly,  gave to the poor, and did good for everyone. When he ran out of money he  went to his brother, borrowed a bushel, and got some more money, but did  not touch any of the very valuable things. When he wanted to get some more  money for the third time he again borrowed the bushel from his brother.  However, the rich man had long been envious of his brother's wealth and of  the fine household that he had furnished for himself. He could not  understand where the riches came from, and what his brother wanted with  the bushel. Then he thought of a trap. He covered the bottom of the bushel  with pitch, and when he got the bushel back a gold coin was sticking to  it.
He at once went to his brother and asked him, "What have you been  measuring in the bushel?"
"Wheat and barley," said the poor brother.
Then he showed him the gold coin and threatened that if he did not tell  the truth he would bring charges against him before the court. Then the  poor man then told him everything that had happened to him. The rich man  immediately had his wagon hitched up and drove away, intending to do  better than his brother had done, and to bring back with him quite  different treasures.
When he came to the mountain he cried out, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi,  open up."
The mountain opened, and he went inside. There lay the riches all  before him, and for a long time he did not know what he should take hold  of first. Finally took as many precious stones as he could carry. He  wanted to carry his load outside, but as his heart and soul were entirely  occupied with the treasures, he had forgotten the name of the mountain,  and cried out, "Mount Simeli, Mount Simeli, open up."
But that was not the right name, and the mountain did not move,  remaining closed instead. He became frightened, and the longer he thought  about it the more he became confused, and all of the treasures were of no  use to him.
In the evening the mountain opened up, and the twelve robbers came  inside. When they saw him they laughed and cried out, "Bird, we have you  at last. Did you think we did not notice that you came here twice? We  could not catch you then, this third time you shall not get out again."
He cried out, "I wasn't the one. It was my brother!"
But however much he begged for his life, and in spite of everything  that he said, they cut off his head.

The Clever Servant

A clever Hans of this kind was once sent out by his master to look for  a lost cow. He stayed away a long time, and the master thought, "My  faithful Hans is not sparing any pains with his work."
But when he did not return at all, the master was afraid that something  had happened to him, and he himself went out to look for him.
He had to look for a long time, but at last he caught sight of his  servant running up and down a large field.
"Now, dear Hans," said the master after catching up with him, "did you  find the cow that I sent you after?"
"No, master," he answered, "I did not find the cow, but then I have not  been looking for it either."
"Then what have you been looking for, Hans?"
"Something better. And fortunately I have found it."
"What is it?"
"Three blackbirds," answered the servant.
"And where are they?" asked the master.
"I see one of them, I hear the other, and I am chasing after the  third," answered the clever servant.
Take an example from this. Do not trouble yourselves about your masters  or their orders. Instead, just do what comes to you and makes you happy,  and then you will act just as wisely as did clever Hans.

The Lazy Spinning Woman

"If that's the problem," said the man, "then I'll go into the woods,  and get some wood for a reel."
Then the woman was afraid that once he had the wood, he would make a  reel out of it, and she would have to wind up  her yarn, and then begin to spin with an empty wheel.  She thought about  this a little while, and then a good idea came to  her. She secretly followed the man into the woods. When he had climbed  into a tree to select and cut the wood, she crept  into the brush below, where he could not see her, and cried upward:
The man listened, laid down his ax for a while, and thought about what  it could mean.
"Well," he said at last, "what can it have been? Your ears must have  been ringing. Don't get alarmed for nothing." So he  took hold of the ax once more and was about to chop away when again there  came a call from below:
He stopped, took fright, and wondered what was happening.  But a little  while later he took heart again, and for a third  time he reached for the ax and was about to chop away.
But for a third time there came a call from below, saying loudly:
That was enough for him. He no longer had any desire to cut wood, so he  hastily climbed down from the tree, and set  forth toward home.
The woman took a shortcut and ran as fast as she could in order to get  home first. When he entered the parlor, she put  on an innocent look as if nothing had happened, and said, "Well, did you  bring a good piece of wood for a reel?"
"No," he said, "I see very well that winding onto a reel is not  possible," and he told her what had happened to him in  the woods. From then on he said nothing more about it.
Nevertheless, a short time later the man began to complain again about  the disorder in the house. "Wife," he said, "it is  a real shame that the spun yarn is just lying there on the bobbin."
"Do you know what?" she said. "Because we still don't have a reel, you  go up into the loft. I will stand down below and  throw the bobbin up to you, then you will throw it down to me, and thus we  can make a skein after all."
"Yes, that will work," said the man.
So they did it, and when they were finished, he said, "The yarn is  skeined. Now it must be boiled."
The woman was again concerned, and said, "Yes, we will boil it early  tomorrow morning," but she was secretly  planning another trick.
Early in the morning she got up, started a fire, and put the kettle on.  However, instead of the yarn, she put in a clump of  tow and let it boil away. Then she went to the man who was still lying in  bed, and said to him, "I must go out for a while.  Get up now and look after the yarn in the kettle on the fire. Do it right  now, because if the cock crows and you are not  looking after the yarn, it will turn into tow."
The man agreed, and did not delay. He got up at once, as fast as he  could, and went into the kitchen.  But when he  reached the kettle and looked in, he saw with horror nothing but a clump  of tow.

Sweet Porridge

The girl took the pot home to her mother, and now they were freed from their poverty and hunger, and ate sweet porridge as often as they chose. One time when the girl had gone out, her mother said, "Little pot, cook." And it did cook, and she ate until she was full, and then she wanted the pot to stop cooking, but did not know the word.  So it went on cooking and the porridge rose over the edge, and still it cooked on until the kitchen and whole house were full, and then the next house, and then the whole street, just as if it wanted to satisfy the hunger of the whole world.  It was terrible, and no one knew how to stop it.  At last when only one single house remained, the child came home and just said, "Little pot, stop," and it stopped cooking, and anyone who wished to return to the town had to eat his way back.

Fair Katrinelje and Pif Paf Poltrie

"Many thanks, Pif Paf Poltrie."
"May I marry your daughter?"
"Oh, yes, if her mother Milk-Cow, her brother High-Pride, her sister Cheese-Love, and Fair Katrinelje are willing, the wedding can take place."
"Where is her mother Milk-Cow, then?"
"She is in the stall milking the cow."
"Good day, Mother Milk-Cow."
"Many thanks, Pif Paf Poltrie."
"May I marry your daughter?"
"Oh, yes, if Father Elderberry-Tea, Brother High-Pride, Sister Cheese-Love, and Fair Katrinelje are willing, the wedding can take place."
"Where is her brother High-Pride, then?"
"He is in the shed chopping wood."
"Good-day, Brother High-Pride."
"Many thanks, Pif Paf Poltrie."
"May I marry your sister?"
"Oh, yes, if Father Elderberry-Tea, Mother Milk-Cow, Sister Cheese-Love, and Fair Katrinelje are willing, the wedding can take place."
"Where is her sister Cheese-Love, then?"
"She is in the garden cutting cabbages."
"Good-day, Sister Cheese-Love."
"Many thanks, Pif Paf Poltrie."
"May I marry your sister?"
"Oh, yes, if Father Elderberry-Tea, Mother Milk-Cow, Brother High-Pride, and Fair Katrinelje are willing, the wedding can take place."
"Where is Fair Katrinelje, then."
"She is in the parlor counting out her pennies."
"Good day, Fair Katrinelje."
"Many thanks, Pif Paf Poltrie."
"Will you be my sweetheart?"
"Oh, yes, if Father Elderberry-Tea, Mother Milk-Cow, Brother High-Pride, and Sister Cheese-Love are willing, the wedding can take place."
"Fair Katrinelje, what do you have for a dowry?"
"Fourteen pennies in hand, three and a half groschen owed to me, a half pound of dried pears, a handful of pretzels, and a handful of roots, and so it is. Is that not a fine dowry?
"Pif Paf Poltrie, what is your trade? Are you a tailor?"
"Much better than that."
"A cobbler?"
"Much better than that."
"A plowman?"
"Much better than that."
"A joiner?"
"Much better than that."
"A smith?"
"Much better than that."
"A miller?"
"Much better than that."
"Perhaps a broom-maker?"
"Yes, that is what I am. Is that not a fine trade?"

The Fox and the Horse

The horse was sad, and went to the forest to seek a little protection there from the weather.  There the fox met him and said, "Why do you hang your head so, and go about all alone?"
"Alas," replied the horse, "greed and loyalty do not dwell together in one house.  My master has forgotten what services I have performed for him for so many years, and because I can no longer plow well, he will give me no more food, and has driven me out."
"Without giving you a chance?" asked the fox.
"The chance was a bad one.  He said, if I were still strong enough to bring him a lion, he would keep me, but he well knows that I cannot do that."
The fox said, "I will help you. Just lie down, stretch out as if you were dead, and do not stir."
The horse did what the fox asked, and then the fox went to the lion, who had his den not far off, and said, "A dead horse is lying out there. Just come with me, and you can have a rich meal."
The lion went with him, and when they were both standing by the horse the fox said, "After all, it is not very comfortable for you here -- I tell you what -- I will fasten it to you by the tail, and then you can drag it into your cave and eat it in peace."
This advice pleased the lion. He positioned himself, and in order that the fox might tie the horse fast to him, he kept completely quiet. But the fox tied the lion's legs together with the horse's tail, and twisted and fastened everything so well and so strongly that no amount of strength could pull it loose.  When he had finished his work, he tapped the horse on the shoulder and said, "Pull, white horse, pull!"
Then up sprang the horse at once, and pulled the lion away with him. The lion began to roar so that all the birds in the forest flew up in terror, but the horse let him roar, and drew him and dragged him across the field to his master's door.  When the master saw the lion, he was of a better mind, and said to the horse, "You shall stay with me and fare well." And he gave him plenty to eat until he died.

The Shoes That Were Danced to Pieces

Now it happened that a poor soldier, who was wounded and could no longer  serve in the army, was making his way to the city where the king lived. An  old woman met him and asked him where he was going. "I'm not exactly sure  myself," he said, then jokingly added, "But I would like to discover where  the princesses are dancing their shoes to pieces, and then become  king."
"That is not so difficult," said the old woman. "Do not drink the wine  that they will bring you in the evening." Then she gave him a cloak and  said, "When you put this on you will become invisible, and you can follow  the twelve."
Having receiving this good advice, the soldier became serious, took heart,  went to the king, and announced himself as a suitor. He, like the others,  was well received, and was given royal clothes to wear. That evening at  bedtime he was escorted to the anteroom. Just as he was going to bed, the  oldest princess brought him a goblet of wine. However, he had tied a  sponge beneath his chin and let the wine run into it, drinking not a  single drop himself. He lay down, and after a little while began to snore  as if he were in the deepest sleep. The twelve princesses heard him and  laughed. The oldest one said, "He could have spared his life as well!"
Then they got up, opened their wardrobes, chests, and closets, took out  their best clothes, and made themselves beautiful in front of their  mirrors, all the time jumping about in anticipation of the dance. Only the  youngest one said, "I'm not sure. You are all very happy, but I'm afraid  that something bad is going to happen!"
"You snow goose," said the oldest one. "You are always afraid! Have you  forgotten how many princes have been here for nothing? I wouldn't even  have had to give this soldier a sleeping potion. He would never have woken  up."
When they were ready, they first approached the soldier, but he did not  move at all, and as soon as they thought it was safe, the oldest one went  to her bed and knocked on it. It immediately sank beneath the floor, and  they all climbed down through the opening, one after the other, the oldest  one leading the way. The soldier saw everything, and without hesitating he  put on the cloak and followed after the youngest one. Halfway down the  stairs he stepped on her dress. Frightened, she called out, "Who's there?  Who is holding my dress?"
"Don't be so stupid," said the oldest one. "You just caught yourself on a  hook."
They continued until they came to a magnificent walkway between rows of  trees. Their leaves were all made of silver, and they shone and glistened.  The soldier thought to himself, "You'd better take some proof," and he  broke off a twig.
A loud cracking sound came from the tree. The youngest one called out  again, "It's not right. Didn't you hear that sound?"
The oldest one said, "That is just a joyful salute that they are firing  because soon we will have disenchanted our princes."
Then they came to a walkway where the trees were all made of gold, and  finally to a third one, where they were made of clear diamonds. He broke a  twig from each of these. The cracking sound frightened the youngest one  each time, but the oldest one insisted that it was only the sounds of  joyful salutes. They continued on until they came to a large body of  water. Twelve boats were there, and in each boat there sat a handsome  prince waiting for them. Each prince took a princess into his boat.
The soldier sat next to the youngest princess, and her prince said, "I  don't know why the boat is so much heavier today. I have to row with all  my strength in order to make it go."
"It must be the warm weather," said the youngest princess. "It's too hot  for me as well."
On the other side of the water there was a beautiful, brightly illuminated  castle. Joyful music, kettle drums, and trumpets sounded forth. They rowed  over and went inside. Each prince danced with his princess. The invisible  soldier danced along as well, and whenever a princess held up a goblet of  wine, he drank it empty as she lifted it to her mouth. This always  frightened the youngest one, but the oldest one silenced her every time.  They danced there until three o'clock the next morning when their shoes  were danced to pieces and they had to stop. The princes rowed them back  across the water. This time the soldier took a seat next to the oldest  princess in the lead boat. They took leave from their princes on the bank  and promised to come back the next night.
When they were on the steps the soldier ran ahead and got into bed. When  the twelve tired princesses came in slowly, he was again snoring so loudly  that they all could hear him. "We are safe from him," they said. Then they  took off their beautiful clothes and put them away, placed their worn out  shoes under their beds, and went to bed.
The next morning the soldier said nothing, for he wanted to see the  amazing thing once again. He went along the second and third nights, and  everything happened as before. Each time they danced until their shoes  were in pieces. The third time he also took along a goblet as a piece of  evidence.
The hour came when he was to give his answer, and he brought the three  twigs and the goblet before the king. The twelve princesses stood behind  the door and listened to what he had to say. The king asked, "Where did my  daughters dance their shoes to pieces?"
He answered, "in an underground castle with twelve princes." Then he told  the whole story and brought forth the pieces of evidence. The king  summoned his daughters and asked them if the soldier had told the truth.  Seeing that they had been betrayed, and that their denials did no good,  they had to admit everything.
Then the king asked him which one he wanted for a wife. He answered, "I  myself am no longer young, so give me the oldest one."
Their wedding was held the same day, and the kingdom was promised to him  following the king's death. But the princes had as many days added to  their curse as they had spent nights dancing with the twelve princesses.

Going Traveling

Once upon a time there was a poor woman who had a son who wanted very much to travel. His mother said, "How can you travel? We have no money at all for you to take with you."
Then the son said, "I will take care of myself. I will always say, 'Not much, not much, not much.'"
So he walked for a long time, always saying, "Not much, not much, not much."
Then he came to a group of fishermen, and said, "God be with you. Not much, not much, not much."
"What do you say, fellow? Not much?"
And when they pulled up their net, they had not caught many fish. So one of them fell on the boy with a stick, saying, "Have you ever seen me thrash?"
"What should I say, then?" asked the boy.
"You should say, "Catch a lot. Catch a lot."
Then he again walked a long time, saying, "Catch a lot. Catch a lot," until he came to a gallows, where they were about to hang a poor sinner. Then said he, "Good morning. Catch a lot. Catch a lot."
"What do you say, fellow? Catch a lot? Should there be even more wicked people in the world? Isn't this enough?" And he again got it on his back.
"What should I say, then?" he asked.
"You should say, "May God comfort the poor soul."
Again the boy walked on for a long while, saying, "May God comfort the poor soul." Then he came to a ditch where a knacker was skinning a horse. The boy said, "Good morning. May God comfort the poor soul."
"What do you say, you disgusting fellow?" said the knacker, hitting him about the ears with his skinning hook until he could not see out of his eyes.
"What should I say, then?"
"You should say, 'Lie in the ditch, you carcass.'"
So he walked on, saying, "Lie in the ditch, you carcass. Lie in the ditch, you carcass." He came to a coach filled with people, and said, "Lie in the ditch, you carcass."
Then the coach tipped over into the ditch, and the driver took his whip and beat the boy until he had to crawl back to his mother, and as long as he lived he never went traveling again.

The Star Talers

Then a poor man met her, who said, "Ah, give me something to eat, I am so hungry."
She handed him her entire piece of bread, saying, "May God bless it for you," and went on her way.
Then came a child who moaned and said, "My head is so cold. Give me something to cover it with." So she took off her cap and gave it to the child. And when she had walked a little farther, she met another child who had no jacket and was freezing. So she gave her jacket to that child, and a little farther on one begged for a dress, and she gave her dress away as well. At length she made her way into a forest and it was already dark. Then there came yet another child, and asked for a shift, and the pious girl thought to herself, "It is a dark night and no one can see you. You can very well give your shift away," and she took it off, and gave it away as well.

Iron Hans

"Perhaps he has had an accident," said the king, and the following day  he sent out two other huntsmen who were to search for him, but they did  not return either. Then on the third day, he summoned all his huntsmen,  and said, "Search through the whole forest, and do not give up until you  have found all three."
But none of these came home again either, nor were any of the hounds  from the pack that they had taken with them ever seen again.
From that time on, no one dared to go into these woods, and they lay  there in deep quiet and solitude, and all that one saw from there was an  occasional eagle or hawk flying overhead.
This lasted for many years, when an unknown huntsman presented himself  to the king seeking a position, and he volunteered to go into the  dangerous woods.
The king, however, did not want to give his permission, and said, "It  is haunted in there. I am afraid that you will do no better than did the  others, and that you will never come out again."
The huntsman answered, "Sir, I will proceed at my own risk. I know  nothing of fear."
The huntsman therefore set forth with his dog into the woods. It was  not long before the dog picked up a scent and wanted to follow it, but the  dog had run only a few steps when it came to a deep pool, and could go no  further. Then a naked arm reached out of the water, seized the dog, and  pulled it under.
When the huntsman saw that, he went back and got three men. They  returned with buckets and baled out the water. When they could see to the  bottom, there was a wild man lying there. His body was brown like rusty  iron, and his hair hung over his face down to his knees. They bound him  with cords and led him away to the castle.
Everyone was greatly astonished at the wild man. The king had him put  into an iron cage in his courtyard, forbidding, on pain of death, that the  cage door be opened. The queen herself was to safeguard the key.
From this time forth everyone could once again go safely into the  woods.
The king had a son of eight years. One day he was playing in the  courtyard, and during his game his golden ball fell into the cage.
The boy ran to the cage and said, "Give me my ball."
"Not until you have opened the door for me," answered the man.
"No," said the boy, "I will not do that. The king has forbidden it,"  and he ran away.
The next day he came again and demanded his ball.
The wild man said, "Open my door," but the boy would not do so.
On the third day the king had ridden out hunting, and the boy went once  more and said, "Even if I wanted to, I could not open the door. I do not  have the key."
Then the wild man said, "It is under your mother's pillow. You can get  it there."
The boy, who wanted to have his ball back, threw all caution to the  wind, and got the key. The door opened with difficulty, and the boy  pinched his finger. When it was open, the wild man stepped out, gave him  the golden ball, and hurried away.
The boy became afraid. He cried out and called after him, "Oh, wild  man, do not go away, or I shall get a beating."
The wild man turned around, picked him up, set him on his shoulders,  and ran into the woods.
When the king came home he noticed the empty cage and asked the queen  how it had happened. She knew nothing about it, and looked for the key,  but it was gone. She called the boy, but no one answered.
The king sent out people to look for him in the field, but they did not  find him. Then he could easily guess what had happened, and great sorrow  ruled at the royal court.
After the wild man had once more reached the dark woods, he set the boy  down from his shoulders, and said to him, "You will never again see your  father and mother, but I will keep you with me, for you have set me free,  and I have compassion for you. If you do what I tell you, it will go well  with you. I have enough  treasures and gold, more than anyone in the  world."
He made a bed of moss for the boy, upon which he fell asleep. The next  morning the man took him to a spring and said, "Look, this golden spring  is as bright and clear as crystal. You shall sit beside it, and take care  that nothing falls into it, otherwise it will be polluted. I shall come  every evening to see if you have obeyed my order."
The boy sat down at the edge of the spring, and saw how sometimes a  golden fish and sometimes a golden snake appeared from within, and took  care that nothing fell into it. As he was thus sitting there, his finger  hurt him so fiercely that he involuntarily put it into the water. He  quickly pulled it out again, but saw that it was completely covered with  gold. However hard he tried to wipe the gold off again, it  was to no  avail.
That evening Iron Hans came back, looked at the boy, and said, "What  has happened to the spring?"
"Nothing, nothing," he answered, holding his finger behind his back, so  the man would not be able to see it.
But the man said, "You have dipped your finger into the water. This  time I will let it go, but be careful that you do not again let anything  else fall in."
Very early the next morning the boy was already sitting by the spring  and keeping watch. His finger hurt him again, and he rubbed it across his  head. Then unfortunately a hair fell down into the spring. He quickly  pulled it out, but it was already completely covered with gold.
Iron Hans came, and already knew what had happened. "You have let a  hair fall into the spring," he said. "I will overlook this once more, but  if it happens a third time then the spring will be polluted, and you will  no longer be able to stay with me."
On the third day the boy sat by the spring and did not move his finger,  however much it hurt him. But time passed slowly for him, and he looked at  the reflection of his face in the water. While doing this he bent down  lower and lower, wanting to look straight into his eyes, when his long  hair fell from his shoulders down into the water. He quickly straightened  himself up, but all the hair on his head was already covered with gold,  and glistened like the sun. You can imagine how frightened the poor boy  was. He took his handkerchief and tied it around his head, so that the man  would not be able to see his hair.
When the man came, he already knew everything, and said, "Untie the  handkerchief."
The golden hair streamed forth, and no excuse that the boy could offer  was of any use.
"You have failed the test, and you can stay here no longer. Go out into  the world. There you will learn what poverty is. But because you are not  bad at heart, and because I mean well by you, I will grant you one thing:  If you are ever in need, go into the woods and cry out, 'Iron Hans,' and  then I will come and help you. My power is great, greater than you think,  and I have more than enough gold and silver."
Then the prince left the woods, and walked by beaten and unbeaten paths  on and on until at last he reached a great city. There he looked for work,  but he was not able to find any, because he had not learned a trade by  which he could make a living. Finally he went to the castle and asked if  they would take him in.
The people at court did not at all know how they would be able to use  him, but they took a liking to him, and told him to stay. Finally the cook  took him into service, saying that he could carry wood and water, and rake  up the ashes.
Once when no one else was at hand, the cook ordered him to carry the  food to the royal table. Because he did not want them to see his golden  hair, he kept his cap on. Nothing like this had ever before happened to  the king, and he said, "When you approach the royal table you must take  your hat off."
"Oh, sir," he answered, "I cannot. I have an ugly scab on my head."
Then the king summoned the cook and scolded him, asking him how he  could take such a boy into his service. The cook was to send him away at  once. However, the cook had pity on him, and let him trade places with  gardener's boy.
Now the boy had to plant and water the garden, hoe and dig, and put up  with the wind and bad weather.
Once in summer when he was working alone in the garden, the day was so  hot that he took his hat off so that the air would cool him. As the sun  shone on his hair it glistened and sparkled. The rays fell into the  princess's bedroom, and she jumped up to see what it was.
She saw the boy and called out to him, "Boy, bring me a bouquet of  flowers."
He quickly put on his cap, picked some wildflowers, and tied them  together.
As he was climbing the steps with them, the gardener met him and said,  "How can you take the princess a bouquet of such common flowers? Quick! Go  and get some other ones, and choose only the most beautiful and the rarest  ones."
"Oh, no," replied the boy, the wild ones have a stronger scent, and she  will like them better."
When he got into the room, the princess said, "Take your cap off. It is  not polite to keep it on in my presence."
He again responded, "I cannot do that. I have a scabby head."
She, however, took hold of his cap and pulled it off. His golden hair  rolled down onto his shoulders, and it was a magnificent sight. He wanted  to run away, but she held him by his arm, and gave him a handful of  ducats. He went away with them, but he did not care about the gold.
He took the gold pieces to the gardener, saying, "I am giving these  things to your children for them to play with."
The next day the princess called to him again, asking him to bring her  a bouquet of wildflowers. When he went in with it, she immediately grabbed  at his cap, and wanted to take it away from him, but he held it firmly  with both hands. She again gave him a handful of ducats. He did not want  to keep them, giving them instead to the gardener for his children to play  with. On the third day it was no different. She was not able to take his  cap away from him, and he did not want her gold.
Not long afterwards, the country was overrun by war. The king gathered  together his people, not knowing whether or not fight back against the  enemy, who was more powerful and had a large army.
Then the gardener's boy said, "I am grown up, and I want to go to war  as well. Just give me a horse."
The others laughed and said, "After we have left, then look for one by  yourself. We will leave one behind for you in the stable."
After they had left, he went into the stable, and led the horse out. It  had a lame foot, and it limped higgledy-hop, higgledy-hop.
Nevertheless he mounted it, and rode away into the dark woods. When he  came to the edge of  the woods, he called "Iron Hans" three times so  loudly that it sounded through the trees.
The wild man appeared immediately, and said, "What do you need?"
"I need a strong steed, for I am going to war."
"That you shall have, and even more than you are asking for."
Then the wild man went back into the woods, and before long a  stable-boy came out of the woods leading a horse. It was snorting with its  nostrils, and could hardly be restrained. Behind them followed a large  army of warriors, outfitted with iron armor, and with their swords  flashing in the sun.
The youth left his three-legged horse with the stable-boy, mounted the  other horse, and rode at the head of the army. When he approached the  battlefield, a large number of the king's men had already fallen, and  before long the others would have to retreat. Then the youth galloped up  with his iron army and attacked the enemies like a storm,  beating down  all who opposed him. They tried to flee, but the youth was right behind  them, and did not stop, until not a single man was left.
However, instead of returning to the king, he led his army on a  roundabout way back into the woods, and then called for Iron Hans.
"What do you need?" asked the wild man.
"Take back your steed and your army, and give me my three-legged horse  again."
It all happened just as he had requested, and he rode home on his  three-legged horse.
When the king returned to his castle, his daughter went to meet him,  and congratulated him for his victory.
"I am not the one who earned the victory," he said, "but a strange  knight who came to my aid with his army."
The daughter wanted to hear who the strange knight was, but the king  did not know, and said, "He pursued the enemy, and I did not see him  again."
She asked the gardener where his boy was, but he laughed and said, "He  has just come home on his three-legged horse. The others have been making  fun of him and shouting, 'Here comes our higgledy-hop back again.' They  also asked him, 'Under what hedge have you been lying asleep all this  time?' But he said, 'I did better than anyone else. Without me it would  have gone badly.' And then they laughed at him all the more."
The king said to his daughter, "I will proclaim a great festival. It  shall last for three days, and you shall throw a golden apple. Perhaps the  unknown knight will come."
When the festival was announced, the youth went out into the woods and  called Iron Hans.
"What do you need?" he asked.
"To catch the princess's golden apple."
"It is as good as done," said Iron Hans. "And further, you shall have a  suit of red armor and ride on a spirited chestnut horse."
When the day came, the youth galloped up, took his place among the  knights, and was recognized by no one. The princess came forward and threw  a golden apple to the knights. He was the only one who caught it, and as  soon as he had it, he galloped away.
On the second day Iron Hans had outfitted him as a white knight, and  had given him a white horse. Again he was the only one who caught the  apple. Without lingering an instant, he galloped away with it.
The king grew angry and said, "That is not allowed. He must appear  before me and tell me his name."
He gave the order that if the knight who caught the apple, were to go  away again, they should pursue him, and if he would not come back  willingly, they were to strike and stab at him.
On the third day, he received from Iron Hans a suit of black armor and  a black horse, and he caught the apple again. But when he was galloping  away with it, the king's men pursued him, and one of them got so close to  him that he wounded the youth's leg with the point of his sword. In spite  of this he escaped from them, but his horse jumped so violently that his  helmet fell from his head, and they could see that he had golden hair.  They rode back and reported everything to the king.
The next day the princess asked the gardener about his boy.
"He is at work in the garden. The strange fellow has been at the  festival too. He came home only yesterday evening. And furthermore, he  showed my children three golden apples that he had won."
The king had him summoned, and he appeared, again with his cap on his  head. But the princess went up to him and took it off. His golden hair  fell down over his shoulders, and he was so handsome that everyone was  amazed.
"Are you the knight who came to the festival every day, each time in a  different color, and who caught the three golden apples?" asked the king.
"Yes," he answered, "and here are the apples," taking them out of his  pocket, and returning them to the king. "If you need more proof, you can  see the wound that your men gave me when they were chasing me. But I am  also the knight who helped you to your victory over your enemies."
"If you can perform deeds like these then you are not a gardener's boy.  Tell me, who is your father?"
"My father is a powerful king, and I have as much gold as I might  need."
"I can see," said the king, "that I owe you thanks. Can I do anything  for you?"
"Yes," he answered. "You can indeed. Give me your daughter for my  wife."
The maiden laughed and said, "He does not care much for ceremony, but I  already had seen from his golden hair that he was not a gardener's boy,"  and then she went and kissed him.
His father and mother came to the wedding, and were filled with joy,  for they had given up all hope of ever seeing their dear son again.
While they sitting at the wedding feast, the music suddenly stopped,  the doors opened, and a proud king came in with a great retinue. He walked  up to the youth, embraced him, and said, "I am Iron Hans. I had been  transformed into a wild man by a magic spell, but you have broken the  spell. All the treasures that I possess shall belong to you."


Knoist and His Three Sons



The Clever People

"In God's name, just go in peace," answered the woman, "I will manage that."
"You, indeed," said the man. "You once fell on your head when you were a little child, and that affects you even now. But let me tell you this, if you do anything foolish, I will make your back black and blue, and not with paint, I assure you, but with the stick which I have in my hand. And the coloring shall last a whole year. You may rely on that." Having said that, the man went on his way.
The next morning the cattle dealer came, and the woman had no need to say many words to him. When he had seen the cows and heard the price, he said, "I am quite willing to give that. Honestly speaking, they are worth it. I will take the animals away with me at once."
He unfastened their chains and drove them out of the stall, but just as he was going out of the farmyard gate, the woman clutched him by the sleeve and said, "You must give me the two hundred talers now, or I cannot let the cows go."
"Right," answered the man, "but I have forgotten to buckle on my money belt. Have no fear, however, you shall have security until I pay. I will take two cows with me and leave one, so you will have good collateral."
The woman saw the wisdom of this, and let the man go away with the cows, and thought to herself, "How pleased Hans will be when he finds how cleverly I have managed."
The peasant came home on the third day as he had said he would, and at once inquired if the cows were sold. "Yes, indeed, dear Hans," answered the woman, "and as you said, for two hundred talers. They are scarcely worth so much, but the man took them without making any objection."
"Where is the money?" asked the peasant. "Oh, I have not got the money," replied the woman. "He had happened to forget his money belt, but he will soon bring it, and he left good security behind him."
"What kind of security?" asked the man.
"One of the three cows, which he shall not have until he has paid for the other two. I have managed very cunningly, for I have kept the smallest, which eats the least."
The man was enraged and lifted up his stick, and was just going to give her the beating he had promised her, when suddenly he lowered the stick and said, "You are the stupidest goose that ever waddled on God's earth, but I am sorry for you. I will go out into the highway and wait for three days to see if I find anyone who is still stupider than you. If I succeed in doing so, you shall go free, but if I do not find him, you shall receive your well-deserved reward without any discount."
He went out into the great highway, sat down on a stone, and waited for what would come along. Then he saw a farm wagon coming towards him, and a woman was standing upright in the middle of it, instead of sitting on the bundle of straw which was lying beside her, or walking near the oxen and leading them.
The man thought to himself, "That is certainly one of the kind I am in search of," and jumped up and ran back and forth in front of the wagon like one who is not in his right mind.
"What do you want, my friend?" said the woman to him. "I don't know you, where do you come from?"
"I have fallen down from heaven," replied the man, "and don't know how to get back again. Couldn't you drive me up?"
"No," said the woman, "I don't know the way. But if you come from heaven you can surely tell me how my husband is, who has been there these three years. You must have seen him."
"Oh, yes, I have seen him, but not everyone can get on well. He herds sheep, and these creatures give him a great deal to do. They run up the mountains and lose their way in the wilderness, and he has to run after them and drive them together again. His clothes are all torn to pieces too, and will soon fall off his body. There is no tailor there, for Saint Peter won't let any of them in, as you know by the story."
"Who would have thought it?" cried the woman. "I tell you what. I will fetch his Sunday coat which is still hanging at home in the cupboard. He can wear that and look respectable. You will be so kind as to take it with you."
"That won't be possible," answered the peasant. "People are not allowed to take clothes into heaven. They are taken away at the gate."
"Then listen to me," said the woman. "I sold my good wheat yesterday and got a lot of money for it. I will send that to him. If you hide the purse in your pocket, no one will know that you have it."
"If you can't manage it any other way," said the peasant, "I will do you that favor."
"Just sit still where you are," said she, "and I will drive home and fetch the purse. I shall soon be back again. I do not sit down on the bundle of straw, but stand up in the wagon, because it makes it lighter for the cattle."
She drove her oxen away, and the peasant thought, "That woman has a perfect talent for folly. If she really brings the money, my wife may think herself fortunate, for she will get no beating."
It was not long before she came in a great hurry with the money, and with her own hands put it in his pocket. Before she went away, she thanked him again a thousand times for his courtesy.
When the woman got home again, she found her son who had come in from the field. She told him what unexpected things had befallen her, and then added, "I am truly delighted at having found an opportunity of sending something to my poor husband. Who would ever have imagined that he could be suffering for want of anything up in heaven?"
The son was full of astonishment. "Mother," said he, it is not every day that a man comes from heaven in this way. I will go out immediately, and see if he is still to be found, he must tell me what it is like up there, and how the work is done.
He saddled the horse and rode off with all speed. He found the peasant who was sitting under a willow tree, and was about to count the money in the purse. "Have you seen the man who has come from heaven?" cried the youth to him.
"Yes," answered the peasant, "he has set out on his way back there, and has gone up that hill, from whence it will be rather nearer. You could still catch him up, if you ride fast."
"Alas," said the youth, "I have been doing tiring work all day, and the ride here has completely worn me out. You know the man. Be so kind as to get on my horse, and go and persuade him to come here."
"Aha," thought the peasant. "Here is another who has no wick in his lamp."
"Why should I not do you this favor?" said he, and mounted the horse and rode off at a quick trot. The youth remained sitting there until night fell, but the peasant never came back.
"The man from heaven must certainly have been in a great hurry, and would not turn back," thought he, "and the peasant has no doubt given him the horse to take to my father." He went home and told his mother what had happened, and that he had sent his father the horse so that he might not have to be always running about.
"You have done well," answered she. "You still have young legs and can go on foot."
When the peasant got home, he put the horse in the stable beside the cow which had been left as security, and then went to his wife and said, "Trina, as your luck would have it, I have found two who are still more stupid fools than you. This time you escape without a beating. I will store it up for another occasion."
Then he lighted his pipe, sat down in his grandfather's chair, and said, "It was a good stroke of business to get a sleek horse and a great purse full of money into the bargain, for two lean cows. If stupidity always brought in as much as that, I would be quite willing to hold it in honor."
So thought the peasant, but you no doubt prefer the simpletons.

The Little Lamb and the Little Fish

It so happened that the two of them were playing with other children in  a meadow in front their house. There was a pond in the meadow that came up  to one side of the house. The children ran around it, caught one another,  and played a counting out game:

While playing this game they stood in a circle, and the one to whom  they were pointing when they said "cut them up" had to run away, and all  the others would run after him and catch him. While they were thus running  about so joyfully the stepmother was watching them from the window, and  grew angry. Because she understood the art of witchcraft she bewitched  them both, transforming the little brother into a fish, and the little  sister into a lamb.
The little fish swam back and forth in the pond and was sad, and the  little lamb walked back and forth in the meadow and was sad, and would not  eat. She would not even touch one blade of grass. Thus a long time passed,  and then some strangers came as guests to the castle.
The treacherous stepmother thought, "Now is my chance," and called the  cook and said to him, "Go and fetch the lamb from the meadow and slaughter  it. We have nothing else for our guests."
The cook went and got the little lamb, took her into the kitchen, and  tied her feet together. She bore all this patiently. The cook then took  out his knife and was whetting it on the doorstep in order to kill the  little lamb when he saw how a little fish was swimming back and forth in  the water in front of the gutter and looking up at him. This was the  little brother, for when the little fish saw the cook take the little lamb  away, he followed them, swimming along the pond as far as the house.
Then the little lamb cried down to him:

The little fish answered:

When the cook heard that the little lamb could speak, saying such sad  words to the little fish down below, he was frightened and thought that  this could not be an ordinary little lamb, but must have been bewitched by  the wicked woman in the house.
He said, "Don't worry. I won't kill you."
Then he took another animal and prepared it for the guests, after which  he took the little lamb to a good peasant woman and told her everything  that he had seen and heard.
Now this peasant woman had been the wet nurse for the little sister,  and she suspected at once who the little lamb was, and took him with her  to a wise woman. The wise woman pronounced a blessing over the little lamb  and the little fish, and they regained their human forms. After this she  took them both to a little hut in a large forest, where they lived by  themselves, contented and happy.

Simeli Mountain

One day he was pushing his cart through the forest when off to the side  he saw a large bare mountain. He had never seen it before, so he stopped  and looked at it with amazement. While he was standing there he saw twelve  tall wild men approaching. Thinking that they were robbers, he pushed his  cart into the thicket, climbed up a tree, and waited to see what would  happen.
The twelve men went to the mountain and cried out, "Mount Semsi, Mount  Semsi, open up." The barren mountain immediately separated down the  middle. The twelve men walked into it, and as soon as they were inside it  shut.
A little while later it opened again, and the men came out carrying  heavy sacks on their backs. As soon as they were all back in the daylight  they said, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi, close." Then the mountain went back  together, and the entrance could no longer be seen. Then the twelve men  went away.
When they were completely out of sight, the poor man climbed down from  the tree. He was curious to know what secret was hidden in the mountain,  so he went up to it and said, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi, open up," and  the mountain opened up for him as well.
He went inside, and the entire mountain was a cavern full of silver and  gold, and in the back of the cavern there lay great piles of pearls and  sparkling jewels, piled up like grain. The poor man did not know what he  should do, whether or not he could take any of these treasures for  himself. At last he filled his pockets with gold, but he left the pearls  and precious stones lying where they were.
Upon leaving he too said, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi, close," and the  mountain closed. Then he went home with his cart.
He no longer had any cares, for with his gold he could buy bread for  his wife and children, and wine as well. He lived happily and honestly,  gave to the poor, and did good for everyone. When he ran out of money he  went to his brother, borrowed a bushel, and got some more money, but did  not touch any of the very valuable things. When he wanted to get some more  money for the third time he again borrowed the bushel from his brother.  However, the rich man had long been envious of his brother's wealth and of  the fine household that he had furnished for himself. He could not  understand where the riches came from, and what his brother wanted with  the bushel. Then he thought of a trap. He covered the bottom of the bushel  with pitch, and when he got the bushel back a gold coin was sticking to  it.
He at once went to his brother and asked him, "What have you been  measuring in the bushel?"
"Wheat and barley," said the poor brother.
Then he showed him the gold coin and threatened that if he did not tell  the truth he would bring charges against him before the court. Then the  poor man then told him everything that had happened to him. The rich man  immediately had his wagon hitched up and drove away, intending to do  better than his brother had done, and to bring back with him quite  different treasures.
When he came to the mountain he cried out, "Mount Semsi, Mount Semsi,  open up."
The mountain opened, and he went inside. There lay the riches all  before him, and for a long time he did not know what he should take hold  of first. Finally took as many precious stones as he could carry. He  wanted to carry his load outside, but as his heart and soul were entirely  occupied with the treasures, he had forgotten the name of the mountain,  and cried out, "Mount Simeli, Mount Simeli, open up."
But that was not the right name, and the mountain did not move,  remaining closed instead. He became frightened, and the longer he thought  about it the more he became confused, and all of the treasures were of no  use to him.
In the evening the mountain opened up, and the twelve robbers came  inside. When they saw him they laughed and cried out, "Bird, we have you  at last. Did you think we did not notice that you came here twice? We  could not catch you then, this third time you shall not get out again."
He cried out, "I wasn't the one. It was my brother!"
But however much he begged for his life, and in spite of everything  that he said, they cut off his head.

Going Traveling

Once upon a time there was a poor woman who had a son who wanted very much to travel. His mother said, "How can you travel? We have no money at all for you to take with you."
Then the son said, "I will take care of myself. I will always say, 'Not much, not much, not much.'"
So he walked for a long time, always saying, "Not much, not much, not much."
Then he came to a group of fishermen, and said, "God be with you. Not much, not much, not much."
"What do you say, fellow? Not much?"
And when they pulled up their net, they had not caught many fish. So one of them fell on the boy with a stick, saying, "Have you ever seen me thrash?"
"What should I say, then?" asked the boy.
"You should say, "Catch a lot. Catch a lot."
Then he again walked a long time, saying, "Catch a lot. Catch a lot," until he came to a gallows, where they were about to hang a poor sinner. Then said he, "Good morning. Catch a lot. Catch a lot."
"What do you say, fellow? Catch a lot? Should there be even more wicked people in the world? Isn't this enough?" And he again got it on his back.
"What should I say, then?" he asked.
"You should say, "May God comfort the poor soul."
Again the boy walked on for a long while, saying, "May God comfort the poor soul." Then he came to a ditch where a knacker was skinning a horse. The boy said, "Good morning. May God comfort the poor soul."
"What do you say, you disgusting fellow?" said the knacker, hitting him about the ears with his skinning hook until he could not see out of his eyes.
"What should I say, then?"
"You should say, 'Lie in the ditch, you carcass.'"
So he walked on, saying, "Lie in the ditch, you carcass. Lie in the ditch, you carcass." He came to a coach filled with people, and said, "Lie in the ditch, you carcass."
Then the coach tipped over into the ditch, and the driver took his whip and beat the boy until he had to crawl back to his mother, and as long as he lived he never went traveling again.

The Little Donkey

Finally God fulfilled her desires, but when the child came to the world  it did not look like a human child, but instead it was a young donkey.  When the mother saw it she wept and wailed. She would sooner have no child  at all than a donkey, and she said that they should throw it into the  water and let the fish eat it.
But the king said, "No, God has given him to us. He shall be my son and  heir, and following my death he shall sit on the royal throne and wear the  royal crown."
Thus they raised the little donkey. He got bigger, and his ears grew up  straight and tall. He was a very cheerful sort, jumped about, and played.  He was especially fond of music, so he went to a famous minstrel and said,  "Teach me to play the lute as well as you do."
"Oh, my little master," answered the minstrel, "that will be difficult  for you, because you don't have quite the right fingers; they are too  large. And I am afraid that the strings would not hold up."
But no excuse would do. The little donkey insisted on learning to play  the lute. He kept at it and practiced hard, and in the end he learned to  play just as well as his teacher.
One day while taking a contemplative walk he came to a well, looked  into it, and saw his donkey shape in the mirror-like water. This made him  so sad that he set forth into the wide world, taking only a single loyal  companion with him. They went this way and that way, finally coming to a  kingdom where an old king ruled. He had only one daughter, but she was  very beautiful.
The little donkey said, "This is where we will stay." He knocked at the  gate and called out, "There is a guest out here. Open up and let him in."  But they did not open the gate, so he took his lute and began to play it  most beautifully with his two front feet.
That opened the gatekeeper's eyes, and he ran to the king, saying, "A  little donkey is sitting outside the gate playing the lute as good as an  accomplished master."
"Then let the musician in," said the king.
When the little donkey entered, they all began to laugh at the lute  player. They sent him below to sit and eat with the servants, but he  refused, saying, "I am not a common stall donkey, I am a noble one."
"If that is the case, then you can sit with the soldiers," they  said.
"No," he replied, "I want to sit next to the king."
The king laughed and said with good humor, "So be it. If you insist,  then just come here to me." Then he asked, "Little donkey, how do you like  my daughter?"
The donkey turned his head toward her, looked her over, nodded, and  then said, "Beyond all measure. She is the most beautiful girl I have ever  seen."
"Then you should sit next to her," said the king.
"It is all right with me," said the little donkey, then took a seat at  her side and ate, behaving himself like a real gentleman.
After the noble animal had stayed at the king's court for a good while,  he thought to himself, "What is the use? I have to go home again." He  sadly bowed his head, went to the king, and asked for his leave.
But the king, who liked him a great deal, said, "Little donkey, what is  the matter with you. You look as sour as a vinegar jug. I will give you  whatever you ask for. Do you want gold?"
"No."
"Do you want precious things and jewelry?"
"No."
"Do you want half of my kingdom?"
"Oh, no."
Then the king said, "If I only knew what would make you happy. Would  you like to have my beautiful daughter as your wife?"
"Oh, yes," said the little donkey, and was suddenly happy and content,  for that was exactly what he had wanted.
So they had a large and splendid wedding. That evening when the bride  and the bridegroom were led into their bedroom, the king wanted to know if  the little donkey would behave himself like a gentleman, so he had a  servant hide himself there. When the couple was inside, the bridegroom  bolted the door shut, looked around, and thinking that they were all  alone, he pulled off his donkey skin and stood there as a handsome young  man of royalty.
He said, "Now you see who I am, and that I have been worthy of you."
The bride was delighted, kissed him, and loved him with all of her  heart. The next morning he jumped up, put his animal skin on again, and no  one would have thought what he was like beneath it.
The old king soon came by. "Aha," he said. "The little donkey is awake  already!" Then he said to his daughter, "Are you sad that you do not have  an ordinary human for a husband?"
"Not at all, father dear. I love him just as much as if he were the  handsomest man, and I want to keep him as long as I live."
This surprised the king, but then the servant who had hid himself came  and revealed everything to him. The king said, "That cannot be true!"
"Then you keep watch tonight, and you will see it with your own eyes.  And do you know what, your majesty? If you take the skin away from him and  throw it into the fire, then he will have to show himself in his real  form."
"Your advice is good," said the king, and that evening while they  slept, he crept into their room, and when he came to their bed, by the  light of the moon he saw a proud young man lying there. The skin was lying  on the floor. He took it away, had an enormous fire built outside, and had  the skin thrown into it. He himself stayed there until it had burned  entirely to ashes. He stayed awake and kept watch the entire night,  because he wanted to see what the robbed man would do. When the young man  awoke at the first light of morning, he got up and wanted to put on the  donkey skin, but he could not find it.
Terrified, he spoke with sadness and fear, "I will have to run  away."
He left the room, and the king, who was standing there, said, "My son,  where are you going in such a hurry? Just what do you have in mind? Stay  here. You are such a handsome man. Don't leave me. I will give you half my  kingdom for now, and after my death you shall receive the other half."
"I wish a good conclusion for this good beginning," said the young man.  "I shall stay here with you."
Then the old man gave him half his kingdom. He died a year later, and  then he had the whole kingdom, and after the death of his father, another  one as well. And he had a glorious life.

The Ungrateful Son



Lazy Heinz

"It is in truth a heavy burden," he said, "and a tiresome job, to drive  such a goat out to the field year in and year out until late in the fall.  If I could only lie down and sleep at it! But no, I must keep my eyes open  so it won't damage the young trees, or force its way through the hedge  into a garden, or even run away altogether. How can I get some rest and  enjoy life?"
He sat down, collected his thoughts, and considered how he could lift  this burden from his shoulders. For a long time his thoughts led to  nothing, but suddenly it was as if scales were removed from his eyes.
"I know what I will do," he shouted. "I will marry Fat Trina. She too  has a goat, and she can drive mine out with hers, and then I shall no  longer have to torment myself."
So Heinz got up, set his weary limbs into motion, and walked across the  street, for it was no further than that, to where Fat Trina's parents  lived, and asked for the hand in marriage of their industrious and  virtuous daughter.
Her parents did not think about it for long. "Birds of a feather, flock  together," they thought, and gave their consent.
So Fat Trina became Heinz's wife, and drove out both of the goats.  Heinz now enjoyed life, having no work to rest from, but his own laziness.
He went out with her only now and then, saying, "I'm doing this so that  afterwards I will enjoy resting more. Otherwise I shall lose all feeling  for it."
However, Fat Trina was no less lazy.
"Dear Heinz," she said one day, "why should we make our lives so  miserable, ruining the best days of our youth, when there is no need for  it? The two goats disturb our best sleep every morning with their  bleating. Wouldn't it be better for us to give them to our neighbor, who  will give us a beehive for them? We will put the beehive in a sunny place  behind the house, and then not give it any more thought. Bees do not have  to be taken care of, nor driven into the field. They fly out and find  their way home again by themselves, and they collect honey without any  effort at all on our part."
"You have spoken like a sensible woman," replied Heinz. "We will carry  out your proposal without delay. And furthermore, honey tastes better and  is more nourishing than goat's milk, and it keeps longer too."
The neighbor willingly gave them a beehive for the two goats. The bees  flew tirelessly in and out from early morning until late evening, filling  the hive with the best honey. Thus that fall-time, Heinz was able to take  out a whole jugful.
They placed the jug on a shelf on their bedroom wall. Fearing that it  might be stolen, or that the mice might get into it, Trina brought in a  stout hazel stick and put it beside her bed, so that she would be able to  reach it without having to get up, and then from her place in bed drive  away the uninvited guests.
Lazy Heinz did not like to get out of bed before noon. "He who rises  early," he would say, "wastes his wealth."
One morning when he was still lying in the feathers in broad daylight,  resting from his long sleep, he said to his wife, "Women are fond of  sweets, and you have been snacking on the honey. It would be better for us  to exchange it for a goose with a young gosling, before you eat it all  up."
"But not before we have a child to take care of them." replied Trina.  Am I to torment myself with the young geese, wasting all my energy on them  for no reason?"
"Do you think," said Heinz, "that the boy will tend geese? Nowadays  children no longer obey. They do just as they please, because they think  that they are smarter than their parents, just like that servant who was  supposed to look for the cow and chased after three blackbirds."
"Oh," replied Trina, "he will get it if he does not do what I say. I  will take a stick and tan his hide with more blows than can be counted."
"See here, Heinz," she shouted in her fervor, seizing the stick that  she intended to use to drive away the mice. "See here! This is how I will  beat him."
She struck forth, unfortunately hitting the jug of honey above the bed.  The jug struck against the wall and fell down in pieces. The fine honey  flowed out onto the floor.
"There lies the goose with the young gosling," said Heinz. "And they do  not need to be tended. But it is lucky that the jug did not fall on my  head. We have every reason to be satisfied with our fate."
Then noticing that there was still some honey in one of the pieces of  the jug, he reached out for it, saying quite happily, "Wife, let us enjoy  the leftovers, and then we will rest a little from the fright we have had.  What does it matter if we get up a little later than usual? The day will  be long enough."
"Yes," answered Trina, "there is always time enough. You know, the  snail was once invited to a wedding and started on his way, but arrived at  the child's baptism. In front of the house it fell over the fence, and  said, 'Haste makes waste.'"

The Little Old Man Made Young by Fire

Peter had compassion and said, "Lord and master, if it please you, cure his ailments, that he may earn his own bread."
The Lord said gently, "Smith, lend me your forge and put some coals on for me, and then I will make this sick old man young again."
The smith was quite willing. Saint Peter pumped the bellows, and when the coal fire sparkled up large and high, our Lord took the little old man, pushed him into the forge in the middle of the red fire, so that he glowed like a rosebush, and praised God with a loud voice.
After that the Lord went to the quenching-tub, put the glowing little man into it so that the water closed over him, and after he had carefully cooled him, he gave him his blessing, when, behold, the little man sprang nimbly out, looking fresh, upright, healthy, and as if he were twenty years old.
The smith, who had watched everything closely and attentively, invited them all to supper. Now he had an old half-blind, hunchbacked mother-in-law. She went to the youth and asked earnestly if the fire had burned him much.
He answered that he had never felt better, and that he had sat in the glowing coals as if he had been in cool dew.
The youth's words echoed in the the old woman's ears all night long, and early the next morning, after the Lord had gone on his way again and had heartily thanked the smith, the latter thought he might make his old mother-in-law young again in the same way, for he had watched everything very carefully, and it used the skills of his trade. Therefore he called to her, asking her if she, too, would like to go prancing about like an eighteen-year-old girl.
Because the youth had come out of it so well, she said, "With all my heart."
So the smith made a large fire, and pushed the old woman into it. She twisted about this way and that, uttering horrible cries of murder.
"Sit still. Why are you screaming and jumping about so? I still have to blow the fire hotter," he cried, then pumped the bellows again, until all her rags were all afire.
The old woman cried without ceasing, and the smith thought to himself, "It's not going exactly right." Then he took her out and threw her into the quenching-tub. She screamed so loudly that the smith's wife upstairs and her daughter-in-law heard it, and they both ran downstairs, and saw the old woman lying in a heap in the tub, howling and screaming, with her face wrinkled and shriveled and all out of shape.

The Nail

At noon made a rest stop in a town. When he was about to continue on his way, a servant brought him his horse and said, "Sir, a nail is missing from the shoe on his left hind hoof."
"Let it be," answered the merchant. "The shoe will certainly stay on for the six hours that I still have to ride. I am in a hurry."
That afternoon, when he dismounted once again and had his horse fed, a servant came into the inn and said, "Sir, a shoe is missing from your horse's left hind hoof. Shall I take him to the blacksmith?"
"Let it be," answered the man. "The horse can manage for the few hours that I still have to ride. I am in a hurry."
He rode on, but before long the horse began to limp. It did not limp long before it began to stumble, and it did not stumble long before it fell down and broke a leg. The merchant had to leave the horse where it was, and unbuckle the duffel bag, load it onto his shoulder, and walk home on foot, not arriving there until very late that night.
"All this bad luck," he said to himself, "was caused by that cursed nail."
Haste makes waste.

The Rooster Beam

The magic vanished immediately, and the people saw what it was, and drove the sorcerer away in shame and disgrace.
He, however, full of inward anger, said, "I will avenge myself."
Some time later the girl's wedding day arrived. She was all decked out, and went in a great procession across a field to the place where the church was. Suddenly they came to a swollen brook, and there was neither a bridge nor a walkway to cross it. So the bride nimbly lifted up her clothes, and was about to wade through it. She had just stepped into the water when a man near her, and it was the magician, called out mockingly "Aha! What kind of eyes do you have that think they see water?"

The Old Beggar Woman

The beggar woman came up to the door, and there by the fire stood a friendly rogue of a boy warming himself. The boy spoke kindly to the poor old woman as she was standing there by the door shivering, "Come, old mother, and warm yourself."

The Three Lazy Ones

When the time came for him to die he called them to his bed and said,  "Dear children, I have thought of something that I will  reveal to you.  The one of you is the laziest shall become king after me."
The oldest one said, "Father, then the kingdom belongs to me, for I am  so lazy that whenever I lie down to sleep, and a drop falls into my eyes,  I will not even close them so that I can fall asleep."
The second one said, "Father, the kingdom belongs to me, for I am so  lazy that when I am sitting by the fire warming myself, I would rather let  my heels burn up than to pull my legs back."
The third one said, "Father, the kingdom is mine, for I am so lazy that  if I were going to be hanged and already had the rope around my neck, and  someone put into my hand a sharp knife with which to cut the rope, I would  let myself be hanged rather than to lift my hand up to the rope."
When the father heard this he said, "You have taken it the farthest and  shall be king."

The Star Talers

Then a poor man met her, who said, "Ah, give me something to eat, I am so hungry."
She handed him her entire piece of bread, saying, "May God bless it for you," and went on her way.
Then came a child who moaned and said, "My head is so cold. Give me something to cover it with." So she took off her cap and gave it to the child. And when she had walked a little farther, she met another child who had no jacket and was freezing. So she gave her jacket to that child, and a little farther on one begged for a dress, and she gave her dress away as well. At length she made her way into a forest and it was already dark. Then there came yet another child, and asked for a shift, and the pious girl thought to herself, "It is a dark night and no one can see you. You can very well give your shift away," and she took it off, and gave it away as well.

The Stolen Farthing

On the second and on the third day it came back in exactly the same  manner. Then the stranger finally asked the father, whose  beautiful child  it was that went into the next room every day at noon.
"I did not see it," he said, adding that he did he know whose child it  might be.
The next day when it again came, the stranger pointed it out to the  father, but the latter did not see it, nor did the mother and the children  see anything. Then the stranger got up, went to the door of the room,  opened it a little, and looked in. There he saw the child sitting on the  floor, and busily digging and rooting about in the cracks in the floor.  When it saw the stranger, it disappeared.
He now told what he had seen and described the child exactly. Then the  mother recognized it, and said, "Oh, it is my dear child who died four  weeks ago."
They ripped up the floor and found two farthings which the child had  once received from its mother to give to a poor man. It, however, had  thought, "With that money you can buy yourself a piece of zwieback," and  had kept the farthings, hiding them in the cracks in the floor.
Therefore it had had no rest in its grave, and had come every day at  noon to look for these farthings. Then the parents gave the money to a  poor man, and after that the child was never seen again.

Choosing a Bride

The youth did so. The first one ate the cheese with the rind on. The second one hastily cut the rind off the cheese, but she cut it so quickly that she left much good cheese with it, and threw that away also. The third peeled the rind off carefully, and cut neither too much nor too little.  The shepherd told all this to his mother, who said, "Take the third for your wife."

The Hurds

A young man had courted the lazy girl, and the wedding was about to take place. On the eve of the wedding, the industrious girl was dancing merrily about in her beautiful dress, and the bride said,

A Riddling Tale

And that is what happened.
Now the question is, how did her husband recognize her, for the flowers  were exactly alike, and without any difference?
Answer: While she was in her house during the night and not in the  field, the dew did not fall on her as it did on the other two, and by this  her husband recognized her.

The Blue Light

Once upon a time there was a soldier who had served the king loyally  for many long years. When the war was  over and the soldier could no longer serve because of the many wounds he  had received, the king said to him, "You  can go home now. I no longer need you. There will be no more money for  you, because wages are only for those  who earn them."
Because the soldier did not know how he could earn a living, he sadly  walked the whole day long, until he  came to a forest in the evening. As darkness fell he saw a light. He  approached it and came to a little house, where  a witch lived. "Give me a night's shelter and a little to eat and drink,"  he said to her, "otherwise I will perish."
"Oho!" she answered. "Who gives anything to a runaway soldier? But I  will have pity and take you in after all, if  you will do what I ask of you."
"What do you want?" asked the soldier.
"For you to dig up my garden tomorrow."
The soldier agreed, and the next day he worked with all his might, but  could not finish before evening. "I see,"  said the witch, "that you can do no more work today. I will take you in  for one more night if tomorrow you will cut  up and split a stack of wood for me."
The soldier took the entire day to do this, and that evening the witch  proposed that he remain a third night.  "Tomorrow I have only a small task for you. Behind my house there is a dry  well into which my light has fallen. It  burns blue and never goes out. I want you to get it for me."
The next day the old woman led him to the well and lowered him down it  in a basket. He found the blue light  and gave a sign that she should pull him up again. And she did pull him  up, but when he was close to the edge, she  wanted to take the blue light from him. "No," he said, sensing her evil  thoughts, "I shall not give you the light until  I am standing on the ground with both feet."
Then the witch became furious, let him fall back into the well, and  walked away. The poor soldier fell to the  damp floor without being injured. The blue light continued to burn, but  how could that help him? He saw that  would not be able to escape death. He sadly sat there for a while. Then he  happened to reach into his pocket and  found his tobacco pipe, which was still half full. "This will be your last  pleasure," he thought, pulled it out, lit it  with the blue light, and began to smoke.
After the fumes had wafted about the cavern, suddenly there stood  before him a little black dwarf, who said,  "Master, what do you command?"
"Why should I command you?" replied the bewildered soldier.
"I must do everything that you demand," said the dwarf."
"Good," said the soldier, "then first help me out of this well."
The dwarf took him by the hand and led him through an underground  passage, and he did not forget to take  the blue light with him. Along the way he showed him the treasures that  the witch had collected and hidden  there, and the soldier took as much gold as he could carry. When he was  above ground, he said to the dwarf, "Now  go and bind the old witch and take her to the judge."
Not long afterward she came riding by on a tomcat as fast as the wind  and screaming horribly. And not long  after that the dwarf was back. "It is all taken care of," he said. "The  witch is hanging on the gallows. Master, what  do you command now?"
"Nothing at the moment," answered the soldier. "You can go home, but be  ready when I call you."
"It is only necessary," said the dwarf, "for you to light your pipe  with the blue light, and I will be with you."  With that he disappeared before his very eyes.
The soldier returned to the city from which he had come. He moved into  the best inn and had beautiful  clothes made for himself. Then he told the innkeeper to furnish his room  as luxuriously as possible. When it was  finished he summoned the black dwarf and said, "I served the king loyally,  but he sent me away to starve. For this  I now want revenge."
"What am I to do?" asked the little man.
"Late this evening, when the king's daughter is lying in bed, bring her  here to me in her sleep. She shall do  maid service for me."
The dwarf said, "That is an easy thing for me, but a dangerous thing  for you. If you are found out, it will not go  well for you."
At the strike of twelve the door opened, and the dwarf carried the  king's daughter in.
"Aha, is that you?" cried the soldier. "Get to work now! Go fetch the  broom and sweep the room." When she  was finished he called her to his chair, stuck his feet out at her, and  said, "Pull off my boots," then threw them in  her face, and she had to pick them up and clean them and make them shine.  She did everything that he ordered  her to do, without resisting, silently, and with half-closed eyes. At the  first cock's crow, the dwarf carried her to the  royal palace and back to her bed.
The next morning, after the king's daughter had gotten up, she went to  her father and told him that she had  had an amazing dream. "I was carried away through the streets as fast as  lightning and taken to a soldier's room. I  had to serve as his maid and wait on him and do common work, sweep the  room, and clean his boots. It was only a  dream, but still I am as tired as if I had really done it all."
"The dream could have been true," said the king. "I will give you some  advice. Fill your pocket with peas, then  make a small hole in your pocket. If you are carried away again, they will  fall out and leave a track on the  street."
As the king was thus speaking, the dwarf was invisibly standing nearby  and heard everything.
That night when he once again carried the sleeping princess through the  streets, a few peas did indeed fall out  of her pocket, but they did not leave a track, because the cunning dwarf  had already scattered peas in all the  streets. And once again the king's daughter had to do maid service until  the cock crowed.
The next morning the king sent his people out to look for the track,  but it was to no end, for in all the streets  there were poor children gathering peas and saying, "Last night it rained  peas."
"We must think of something else," said the king. "Leave your shoes on  when you go to bed, and before you  return from there, hide one of them. I will be sure to find it."
The black dwarf overheard this proposal, and that evening when the  soldier again wanted the king's daughter  brought to him, the dwarf advised him against this, saying that he had no  way to protect him against such  trickery. If the shoe were to be found in his room, it would not go well  with him.
"Do what I tell you," replied the soldier, and for a third night the  king's daughter had to work like a maid. But  before she was carried back, she hid a shoe under the bed.
The next morning the king had the entire city searched for the shoe,  and it was found in the soldier's room.  The soldier himself, following the little man's request, was already  outside the city gate, but they soon overtook  him and threw him into prison.
In his haste, he had forgotten to take along his most valuable things:  the blue light and the gold. He had only  one ducat in his pocket. Standing at the window of his prison and weighted  down with chains, he saw one of his  comrades walking by. He knocked on the glass, and as he walked by, he  said, "Be so good and bring me the little  bundle that I left at the inn. I'll give you a ducat for it."
The comrade ran forth and brought back the desired things. As soon as  the soldier was alone again, he lit his  pipe and summoned the black dwarf. "Have no fear," he said to his master.  "Just go where they lead you, and let  everything happen, but take the blue light with you."
The next day the soldier was tried, and although he had done nothing  wrong, the judge still sentenced him to  death. As he was being led out, he asked the king for one last wish.
"What sort of a wish?" asked the king.
"That I might smoke one more pipe on the way."
"You can smoke three," answered the king, "but do not think that I will  let you live."
Then the soldier pulled out his pipe and lit it with the blue light. As  soon as a few rings of smoke had risen,  the dwarf was standing there. He had a cudgel in his hand and said, "What  does my master command?"
"Strike the false judges and their henchmen to the ground for me. And  don't spare the king either, who has  treated me so badly."
Then the dwarf took off like lightning, zip-zap, back and forth, and  everyone he even touched with his cudgel  fell to the ground and did not dare to move. The king became afraid. He  begged for mercy, and in order to save his  life, he gave to the soldier his kingdom as well as his daughter for a  wife.


The Clever Servant

A clever Hans of this kind was once sent out by his master to look for  a lost cow. He stayed away a long time, and the master thought, "My  faithful Hans is not sparing any pains with his work."
But when he did not return at all, the master was afraid that something  had happened to him, and he himself went out to look for him.
He had to look for a long time, but at last he caught sight of his  servant running up and down a large field.
"Now, dear Hans," said the master after catching up with him, "did you  find the cow that I sent you after?"
"No, master," he answered, "I did not find the cow, but then I have not  been looking for it either."
"Then what have you been looking for, Hans?"
"Something better. And fortunately I have found it."
"What is it?"
"Three blackbirds," answered the servant.
"And where are they?" asked the master.
"I see one of them, I hear the other, and I am chasing after the  third," answered the clever servant.
Take an example from this. Do not trouble yourselves about your masters  or their orders. Instead, just do what comes to you and makes you happy,  and then you will act just as wisely as did clever Hans.

Iron Hans

"Perhaps he has had an accident," said the king, and the following day  he sent out two other huntsmen who were to search for him, but they did  not return either. Then on the third day, he summoned all his huntsmen,  and said, "Search through the whole forest, and do not give up until you  have found all three."
But none of these came home again either, nor were any of the hounds  from the pack that they had taken with them ever seen again.
From that time on, no one dared to go into these woods, and they lay  there in deep quiet and solitude, and all that one saw from there was an  occasional eagle or hawk flying overhead.
This lasted for many years, when an unknown huntsman presented himself  to the king seeking a position, and he volunteered to go into the  dangerous woods.
The king, however, did not want to give his permission, and said, "It  is haunted in there. I am afraid that you will do no better than did the  others, and that you will never come out again."
The huntsman answered, "Sir, I will proceed at my own risk. I know  nothing of fear."
The huntsman therefore set forth with his dog into the woods. It was  not long before the dog picked up a scent and wanted to follow it, but the  dog had run only a few steps when it came to a deep pool, and could go no  further. Then a naked arm reached out of the water, seized the dog, and  pulled it under.
When the huntsman saw that, he went back and got three men. They  returned with buckets and baled out the water. When they could see to the  bottom, there was a wild man lying there. His body was brown like rusty  iron, and his hair hung over his face down to his knees. They bound him  with cords and led him away to the castle.
Everyone was greatly astonished at the wild man. The king had him put  into an iron cage in his courtyard, forbidding, on pain of death, that the  cage door be opened. The queen herself was to safeguard the key.
From this time forth everyone could once again go safely into the  woods.
The king had a son of eight years. One day he was playing in the  courtyard, and during his game his golden ball fell into the cage.
The boy ran to the cage and said, "Give me my ball."
"Not until you have opened the door for me," answered the man.
"No," said the boy, "I will not do that. The king has forbidden it,"  and he ran away.
The next day he came again and demanded his ball.
The wild man said, "Open my door," but the boy would not do so.
On the third day the king had ridden out hunting, and the boy went once  more and said, "Even if I wanted to, I could not open the door. I do not  have the key."
Then the wild man said, "It is under your mother's pillow. You can get  it there."
The boy, who wanted to have his ball back, threw all caution to the  wind, and got the key. The door opened with difficulty, and the boy  pinched his finger. When it was open, the wild man stepped out, gave him  the golden ball, and hurried away.
The boy became afraid. He cried out and called after him, "Oh, wild  man, do not go away, or I shall get a beating."
The wild man turned around, picked him up, set him on his shoulders,  and ran into the woods.
When the king came home he noticed the empty cage and asked the queen  how it had happened. She knew nothing about it, and looked for the key,  but it was gone. She called the boy, but no one answered.
The king sent out people to look for him in the field, but they did not  find him. Then he could easily guess what had happened, and great sorrow  ruled at the royal court.
After the wild man had once more reached the dark woods, he set the boy  down from his shoulders, and said to him, "You will never again see your  father and mother, but I will keep you with me, for you have set me free,  and I have compassion for you. If you do what I tell you, it will go well  with you. I have enough  treasures and gold, more than anyone in the  world."
He made a bed of moss for the boy, upon which he fell asleep. The next  morning the man took him to a spring and said, "Look, this golden spring  is as bright and clear as crystal. You shall sit beside it, and take care  that nothing falls into it, otherwise it will be polluted. I shall come  every evening to see if you have obeyed my order."
The boy sat down at the edge of the spring, and saw how sometimes a  golden fish and sometimes a golden snake appeared from within, and took  care that nothing fell into it. As he was thus sitting there, his finger  hurt him so fiercely that he involuntarily put it into the water. He  quickly pulled it out again, but saw that it was completely covered with  gold. However hard he tried to wipe the gold off again, it  was to no  avail.
That evening Iron Hans came back, looked at the boy, and said, "What  has happened to the spring?"
"Nothing, nothing," he answered, holding his finger behind his back, so  the man would not be able to see it.
But the man said, "You have dipped your finger into the water. This  time I will let it go, but be careful that you do not again let anything  else fall in."
Very early the next morning the boy was already sitting by the spring  and keeping watch. His finger hurt him again, and he rubbed it across his  head. Then unfortunately a hair fell down into the spring. He quickly  pulled it out, but it was already completely covered with gold.
Iron Hans came, and already knew what had happened. "You have let a  hair fall into the spring," he said. "I will overlook this once more, but  if it happens a third time then the spring will be polluted, and you will  no longer be able to stay with me."
On the third day the boy sat by the spring and did not move his finger,  however much it hurt him. But time passed slowly for him, and he looked at  the reflection of his face in the water. While doing this he bent down  lower and lower, wanting to look straight into his eyes, when his long  hair fell from his shoulders down into the water. He quickly straightened  himself up, but all the hair on his head was already covered with gold,  and glistened like the sun. You can imagine how frightened the poor boy  was. He took his handkerchief and tied it around his head, so that the man  would not be able to see his hair.
When the man came, he already knew everything, and said, "Untie the  handkerchief."
The golden hair streamed forth, and no excuse that the boy could offer  was of any use.
"You have failed the test, and you can stay here no longer. Go out into  the world. There you will learn what poverty is. But because you are not  bad at heart, and because I mean well by you, I will grant you one thing:  If you are ever in need, go into the woods and cry out, 'Iron Hans,' and  then I will come and help you. My power is great, greater than you think,  and I have more than enough gold and silver."
Then the prince left the woods, and walked by beaten and unbeaten paths  on and on until at last he reached a great city. There he looked for work,  but he was not able to find any, because he had not learned a trade by  which he could make a living. Finally he went to the castle and asked if  they would take him in.
The people at court did not at all know how they would be able to use  him, but they took a liking to him, and told him to stay. Finally the cook  took him into service, saying that he could carry wood and water, and rake  up the ashes.
Once when no one else was at hand, the cook ordered him to carry the  food to the royal table. Because he did not want them to see his golden  hair, he kept his cap on. Nothing like this had ever before happened to  the king, and he said, "When you approach the royal table you must take  your hat off."
"Oh, sir," he answered, "I cannot. I have an ugly scab on my head."
Then the king summoned the cook and scolded him, asking him how he  could take such a boy into his service. The cook was to send him away at  once. However, the cook had pity on him, and let him trade places with  gardener's boy.
Now the boy had to plant and water the garden, hoe and dig, and put up  with the wind and bad weather.
Once in summer when he was working alone in the garden, the day was so  hot that he took his hat off so that the air would cool him. As the sun  shone on his hair it glistened and sparkled. The rays fell into the  princess's bedroom, and she jumped up to see what it was.
She saw the boy and called out to him, "Boy, bring me a bouquet of  flowers."
He quickly put on his cap, picked some wildflowers, and tied them  together.
As he was climbing the steps with them, the gardener met him and said,  "How can you take the princess a bouquet of such common flowers? Quick! Go  and get some other ones, and choose only the most beautiful and the rarest  ones."
"Oh, no," replied the boy, the wild ones have a stronger scent, and she  will like them better."
When he got into the room, the princess said, "Take your cap off. It is  not polite to keep it on in my presence."
He again responded, "I cannot do that. I have a scabby head."
She, however, took hold of his cap and pulled it off. His golden hair  rolled down onto his shoulders, and it was a magnificent sight. He wanted  to run away, but she held him by his arm, and gave him a handful of  ducats. He went away with them, but he did not care about the gold.
He took the gold pieces to the gardener, saying, "I am giving these  things to your children for them to play with."
The next day the princess called to him again, asking him to bring her  a bouquet of wildflowers. When he went in with it, she immediately grabbed  at his cap, and wanted to take it away from him, but he held it firmly  with both hands. She again gave him a handful of ducats. He did not want  to keep them, giving them instead to the gardener for his children to play  with. On the third day it was no different. She was not able to take his  cap away from him, and he did not want her gold.
Not long afterwards, the country was overrun by war. The king gathered  together his people, not knowing whether or not fight back against the  enemy, who was more powerful and had a large army.
Then the gardener's boy said, "I am grown up, and I want to go to war  as well. Just give me a horse."
The others laughed and said, "After we have left, then look for one by  yourself. We will leave one behind for you in the stable."
After they had left, he went into the stable, and led the horse out. It  had a lame foot, and it limped higgledy-hop, higgledy-hop.
Nevertheless he mounted it, and rode away into the dark woods. When he  came to the edge of  the woods, he called "Iron Hans" three times so  loudly that it sounded through the trees.
The wild man appeared immediately, and said, "What do you need?"
"I need a strong steed, for I am going to war."
"That you shall have, and even more than you are asking for."
Then the wild man went back into the woods, and before long a  stable-boy came out of the woods leading a horse. It was snorting with its  nostrils, and could hardly be restrained. Behind them followed a large  army of warriors, outfitted with iron armor, and with their swords  flashing in the sun.
The youth left his three-legged horse with the stable-boy, mounted the  other horse, and rode at the head of the army. When he approached the  battlefield, a large number of the king's men had already fallen, and  before long the others would have to retreat. Then the youth galloped up  with his iron army and attacked the enemies like a storm,  beating down  all who opposed him. They tried to flee, but the youth was right behind  them, and did not stop, until not a single man was left.
However, instead of returning to the king, he led his army on a  roundabout way back into the woods, and then called for Iron Hans.
"What do you need?" asked the wild man.
"Take back your steed and your army, and give me my three-legged horse  again."
It all happened just as he had requested, and he rode home on his  three-legged horse.
When the king returned to his castle, his daughter went to meet him,  and congratulated him for his victory.
"I am not the one who earned the victory," he said, "but a strange  knight who came to my aid with his army."
The daughter wanted to hear who the strange knight was, but the king  did not know, and said, "He pursued the enemy, and I did not see him  again."
She asked the gardener where his boy was, but he laughed and said, "He  has just come home on his three-legged horse. The others have been making  fun of him and shouting, 'Here comes our higgledy-hop back again.' They  also asked him, 'Under what hedge have you been lying asleep all this  time?' But he said, 'I did better than anyone else. Without me it would  have gone badly.' And then they laughed at him all the more."
The king said to his daughter, "I will proclaim a great festival. It  shall last for three days, and you shall throw a golden apple. Perhaps the  unknown knight will come."
When the festival was announced, the youth went out into the woods and  called Iron Hans.
"What do you need?" he asked.
"To catch the princess's golden apple."
"It is as good as done," said Iron Hans. "And further, you shall have a  suit of red armor and ride on a spirited chestnut horse."
When the day came, the youth galloped up, took his place among the  knights, and was recognized by no one. The princess came forward and threw  a golden apple to the knights. He was the only one who caught it, and as  soon as he had it, he galloped away.
On the second day Iron Hans had outfitted him as a white knight, and  had given him a white horse. Again he was the only one who caught the  apple. Without lingering an instant, he galloped away with it.
The king grew angry and said, "That is not allowed. He must appear  before me and tell me his name."
He gave the order that if the knight who caught the apple, were to go  away again, they should pursue him, and if he would not come back  willingly, they were to strike and stab at him.
On the third day, he received from Iron Hans a suit of black armor and  a black horse, and he caught the apple again. But when he was galloping  away with it, the king's men pursued him, and one of them got so close to  him that he wounded the youth's leg with the point of his sword. In spite  of this he escaped from them, but his horse jumped so violently that his  helmet fell from his head, and they could see that he had golden hair.  They rode back and reported everything to the king.
The next day the princess asked the gardener about his boy.
"He is at work in the garden. The strange fellow has been at the  festival too. He came home only yesterday evening. And furthermore, he  showed my children three golden apples that he had won."
The king had him summoned, and he appeared, again with his cap on his  head. But the princess went up to him and took it off. His golden hair  fell down over his shoulders, and he was so handsome that everyone was  amazed.
"Are you the knight who came to the festival every day, each time in a  different color, and who caught the three golden apples?" asked the king.
"Yes," he answered, "and here are the apples," taking them out of his  pocket, and returning them to the king. "If you need more proof, you can  see the wound that your men gave me when they were chasing me. But I am  also the knight who helped you to your victory over your enemies."
"If you can perform deeds like these then you are not a gardener's boy.  Tell me, who is your father?"
"My father is a powerful king, and I have as much gold as I might  need."
"I can see," said the king, "that I owe you thanks. Can I do anything  for you?"
"Yes," he answered. "You can indeed. Give me your daughter for my  wife."
The maiden laughed and said, "He does not care much for ceremony, but I  already had seen from his golden hair that he was not a gardener's boy,"  and then she went and kissed him.
His father and mother came to the wedding, and were filled with joy,  for they had given up all hope of ever seeing their dear son again.
While they sitting at the wedding feast, the music suddenly stopped,  the doors opened, and a proud king came in with a great retinue. He walked  up to the youth, embraced him, and said, "I am Iron Hans. I had been  transformed into a wild man by a magic spell, but you have broken the  spell. All the treasures that I possess shall belong to you."


Lazy Heinz

"It is in truth a heavy burden," he said, "and a tiresome job, to drive  such a goat out to the field year in and year out until late in the fall.  If I could only lie down and sleep at it! But no, I must keep my eyes open  so it won't damage the young trees, or force its way through the hedge  into a garden, or even run away altogether. How can I get some rest and  enjoy life?"
He sat down, collected his thoughts, and considered how he could lift  this burden from his shoulders. For a long time his thoughts led to  nothing, but suddenly it was as if scales were removed from his eyes.
"I know what I will do," he shouted. "I will marry Fat Trina. She too  has a goat, and she can drive mine out with hers, and then I shall no  longer have to torment myself."
So Heinz got up, set his weary limbs into motion, and walked across the  street, for it was no further than that, to where Fat Trina's parents  lived, and asked for the hand in marriage of their industrious and  virtuous daughter.
Her parents did not think about it for long. "Birds of a feather, flock  together," they thought, and gave their consent.
So Fat Trina became Heinz's wife, and drove out both of the goats.  Heinz now enjoyed life, having no work to rest from, but his own laziness.
He went out with her only now and then, saying, "I'm doing this so that  afterwards I will enjoy resting more. Otherwise I shall lose all feeling  for it."
However, Fat Trina was no less lazy.
"Dear Heinz," she said one day, "why should we make our lives so  miserable, ruining the best days of our youth, when there is no need for  it? The two goats disturb our best sleep every morning with their  bleating. Wouldn't it be better for us to give them to our neighbor, who  will give us a beehive for them? We will put the beehive in a sunny place  behind the house, and then not give it any more thought. Bees do not have  to be taken care of, nor driven into the field. They fly out and find  their way home again by themselves, and they collect honey without any  effort at all on our part."
"You have spoken like a sensible woman," replied Heinz. "We will carry  out your proposal without delay. And furthermore, honey tastes better and  is more nourishing than goat's milk, and it keeps longer too."
The neighbor willingly gave them a beehive for the two goats. The bees  flew tirelessly in and out from early morning until late evening, filling  the hive with the best honey. Thus that fall-time, Heinz was able to take  out a whole jugful.
They placed the jug on a shelf on their bedroom wall. Fearing that it  might be stolen, or that the mice might get into it, Trina brought in a  stout hazel stick and put it beside her bed, so that she would be able to  reach it without having to get up, and then from her place in bed drive  away the uninvited guests.
Lazy Heinz did not like to get out of bed before noon. "He who rises  early," he would say, "wastes his wealth."
One morning when he was still lying in the feathers in broad daylight,  resting from his long sleep, he said to his wife, "Women are fond of  sweets, and you have been snacking on the honey. It would be better for us  to exchange it for a goose with a young gosling, before you eat it all  up."
"But not before we have a child to take care of them." replied Trina.  Am I to torment myself with the young geese, wasting all my energy on them  for no reason?"
"Do you think," said Heinz, "that the boy will tend geese? Nowadays  children no longer obey. They do just as they please, because they think  that they are smarter than their parents, just like that servant who was  supposed to look for the cow and chased after three blackbirds."
"Oh," replied Trina, "he will get it if he does not do what I say. I  will take a stick and tan his hide with more blows than can be counted."
"See here, Heinz," she shouted in her fervor, seizing the stick that  she intended to use to drive away the mice. "See here! This is how I will  beat him."
She struck forth, unfortunately hitting the jug of honey above the bed.  The jug struck against the wall and fell down in pieces. The fine honey  flowed out onto the floor.
"There lies the goose with the young gosling," said Heinz. "And they do  not need to be tended. But it is lucky that the jug did not fall on my  head. We have every reason to be satisfied with our fate."
Then noticing that there was still some honey in one of the pieces of  the jug, he reached out for it, saying quite happily, "Wife, let us enjoy  the leftovers, and then we will rest a little from the fright we have had.  What does it matter if we get up a little later than usual? The day will  be long enough."
"Yes," answered Trina, "there is always time enough. You know, the  snail was once invited to a wedding and started on his way, but arrived at  the child's baptism. In front of the house it fell over the fence, and  said, 'Haste makes waste.'"

The Hurds

A young man had courted the lazy girl, and the wedding was about to take place. On the eve of the wedding, the industrious girl was dancing merrily about in her beautiful dress, and the bride said,

The Duration of Life

"Thirty years," answered God. "Is that all right with you?"
"Oh, Lord," replied the donkey, "that is a long time. Think of my tiresome  existence carrying heavy loads from morning until night, dragging bags of  grain to the mill so that others might eat bread, only to be cheered along  and refreshed with kicks and blows! Spare me part of this long time."
So God had mercy and gave him eighteen years. The donkey went away  satisfied, and the dog made his appearance.
"How long do you want to live?" said God to him. "Thirty years was too  much for the donkey, but you will be satisfied with that long."
"Lord," answered the dog. "Is that your will? Just think how much I have  to run. My feet will not hold out so long. And what can I do but growl and  run from one corner to another after I have lost my voice for barking and  my teeth for biting?"
God saw that he was right, and he took away twelve years. Then came the  monkey.
"Surely you would like to live thirty years," said the Lord to him. "You  do not need to work like the donkey and the dog, and are always having  fun."
"Oh, Lord," he answered, "so it appears, but it is different. When it  rains porridge, I don't have a spoon. I am always supposed to be playing  funny tricks and making faces so people will laugh, but when they give me  an apple and I bite into it, it is always sour. How often is sorrow hidden  behind a joke. I cannot put up with all that for thirty years!"
God had mercy and gave him ten years. Finally man made his appearance.  Cheerful, healthy, and refreshed, he asked God to determine the duration  of his life.
"You shall live thirty years," spoke the Lord. "Is that enough for you?"
"What a short time!" cried the man. "When I have built a house and a fire  is burning on my own hearth, when I have planted trees that blossom and  bear fruit, and am just beginning to enjoy life, then I am to die. Oh,  Lord, extend my time."
"I will add the donkey's eighteen years," said God.
"That is not enough," replied the man.
"You shall also have the dog's twelve years."
"Still too little."
"Well, then," said God, "I will give you the monkey's ten years as well,  but you shall receive no more."
The man went away, but he was not satisfied.
Thus man lives seventy years. The first thirty are his human years, and  they quickly disappear. Here he is healthy and happy; he works with  pleasure, and enjoys his existence. The donkey's eighteen years follow.  Here one burden after the other is laid on him; he carries the grain that  feeds others, and his faithful service is rewarded with kicks and blows.  Then come the dog's twelve years, and he lies in the corner growling, no  longer having teeth with which to bite. And when this time is past, the  monkey's ten years conclude. Now man is weak headed and foolish; he does  silly things and becomes a laughingstock for children.



Lean Lisa

One evening she was lying in bed, too tired to move a muscle but still  unable to fall asleep, when she poked her husband in the side with her  elbow and said, "Lenz, listen to what I just thought of. If I were to find  a florin, and you were to give me another one, then I'd borrow yet another  one, and you'd give me still another one, and then I would take the four  florins and buy a young cow."
The man agreed. "I don't know," he said, "where I'm to get that florin  I'm supposed to give you, but after you have the money to buy a cow, it  will be a good thing." Then he added, "I'm looking forward to the time  after the cow calves, so I can have some good refreshing milk to  drink."
"The milk is not for you," said the woman. "We will let the calf suck,  so it will grow large and fat, and we can sell it for a good price."
"Of course," said the man, "but it won't hurt anything if we take a  little milk."
"Who taught you about cows?" said the woman. "I won't allow it, whether  it will hurt anything or not. You can stand on your head, but you won't  get a single drop of milk. Lanky Lenz, just because you are always hungry,  you think that you can devour everything that my hard work brings in."
"Woman," said the man, "be quiet, or I'll plant one on the side of your  face."
"What!" she cried. "Are you threatening me! You glutton! You  good-for-nothing! You lazybones!"
She was reaching for his hair, but Lanky Lenz raised himself up, took  hold of both her skinny arms with one hand, then pushed her head into the  pillow with the other one. He held her there and let her scold until she  fell asleep from exhaustion.
The next morning when she woke up, I do not know whether she continued  to quarrel, or whether she went out to look for the florin that she wanted  to find.

The Two Travelers

The shoemaker took a mighty drink, and the storm on his face began to  clear away. He gave the bottle back to the tailor, and said, "I took a  hearty gulp. They have a lot to say about heavy drinking, but not   much about great thirst. Shall we travel together?"
"All right," answered the tailor, "but only if only it suits you to go  to a big town where there is no lack of work."
"That is just where I wanted to go," answered the shoemaker. "In a small  place there is nothing to be earned, and in the country people prefer to  go barefoot."
Thus they traveled on together, always setting one foot before the other  like a weasel in the snow. Both of them had time enough, but little to  eat. When they reached a town they went about looking for work, and  because the tailor looked so lively and merry, and had such fine red  cheeks, every one gave him work willingly, and if he was lucky, the  master's daughter gave him a kiss as well.
Whenever he met up with the shoemaker, the tailor always had the most in  his bundle. The ill-tempered shoemaker would make a sour face, thinking,  "The greater the rascal, the better the luck."
But the tailor would begin  to laugh and to sing, and shared everything he had with his comrade. If a  couple of pennies jingled in his pockets, he ordered drinks, then  cheerfully thumped the table until the glasses danced. His motto was "Easy  come, easy go."
After they had traveled for some time, they came to a great forest through  which passed the way to the capital. Two footpaths led through  it, one of which was a seven days' journey and the other only two, but  neither of them knew which way was the shorter one. They sat down beneath  an oak tree and discussed together what preparations to make, and for how  many days they should provide themselves with bread.
The shoemaker said, "One must plan ahead for the unexpected. I will take  with me bread for a week."
"What?" said the tailor. "Haul bread for seven days on one's back like a  beast of burden and not be able to look about? I shall trust in God, and  not trouble myself about anything. The money I have in my pocket is as  good in summer as in winter, but in hot weather bread dries out and gets  moldy on top of that. Even my coat reaches only to my ankles. Why  shouldn't we find the right way? Bread for two days, and that's enough."
Therefore each person bought his own bread, and then they tried their luck  in the forest.    It was as quiet there as in a church. No wind stirred, no brook murmured,  no bird sang, and no sunbeam found its way through the thickly leaved  branches. The shoemaker did not speak a word. The bread weighed so heavily  on his back that the sweat streamed down his cross and gloomy face.
The tailor, however, was quite merry. Walking on with a spring in each  step, he whistled on a leaf, or sang a song, and thought to himself, "God  in heaven must be pleased that I am so happy."
This lasted two days, but on the third there was still no end to the  forest, and the tailor had eaten up all his bread. Thus his heart sank  down a yard deeper. Nevertheless, he did not lose courage, but relied on  God and on his luck. On the evening of the third day he lay down hungry  under a tree, and rose again the next morning still hungry. The fourth day  was  the same, and when the shoemaker seated himself on a fallen tree and  devoured his dinner the tailor was only a spectator.
If he begged for a little piece of bread, the other laughed mockingly, and  said, "You have always been so merry. Now you can see for once what it is  like to be sad. Birds that sing too early in the morning are caught by the  hawk in the evening."
In short, he was merciless. On the fifth morning the poor tailor could no  longer stand up and was hardly able to utter one word for weakness. His  cheeks were white, and his eyes were red.
Then the shoemaker said to him, "I will give you a bit of bread today, but  in return for it, I will put out your right eye."
The unhappy tailor, who still wished to save his life, had to submit. He  wept once more with both eyes, and then held them out, and the shoemaker,  who had a heart of stone, put out his right eye with a sharp knife. The  tailor remembered what his mother had once said to him when he had been  snacking in the pantry: "Eat whatever you can, and suffer whatever you  must."
After eating his dearly-bought bread, he got on his legs again, forgot his  misery, and comforted himself with the thought that he could always see  enough with one eye. But on the sixth day, hunger made itself felt again,  almost consuming his heart. That evening he fell down by a tree, and on  the seventh morning he was too weak to get up, and death was close at  hand.
Then the shoemaker said, "I will show mercy and give you bread once more,  but you shall not have it for nothing. I shall put out your other eye for  it."
And now the tailor felt how careless his life had been, prayed to God for  forgiveness, and said, "Do what you will. I will bear what I must, but  remember that our Lord God does not always look on passively, and that an  hour will come when the evil deed which you have done to me, and which I  have not deserved of you, will be requited. When times were good with me  I shared what I had with you. My trade is such that one stitch must follow  another. If I no longer have my eyes and can sew no more, I must go  begging. At any rate do not leave me here alone when I am blind, or I  shall die of hunger."
The shoemaker, however, who had driven God out of his heart, took the  knife and put out his left eye. Then he gave him a bit of bread to eat,  held out a stick to him, and led him on behind him.
At sunset, they got out of the forest, and before them in an open field  stood the gallows. The shoemaker led the blind tailor there, and then went  on his way, leaving him there alone. Weariness, pain, and hunger made the  wretched man fall asleep, and he slept the whole night. He awoke at dawn,  not knowing where he was.
Two poor sinners were hanging on the gallows, with a crow sat on the head  of each of them. Then one of the men who had been hanged began to speak,  and said, "Brother, are you awake?"
"Yes, I am awake," answered the second.
"Then I will tell you something," said the first. "The dew that this night  has fallen down over us from the gallows gives everyone who washes  himself with it his eyes again. If the blind knew this, how many would  regain their sight who do not believe that to be possible?"
Hearing this the tailor took his handkerchief, pressed it on the grass,  and when it was moist with dew, washed the sockets of his eyes with it.  Immediately what the man on the gallows had said came true, and a pair of  healthy new eyes filled the sockets. It was not long before the tailor saw  the sun rise from behind the mountains. In the plain before him lay the  great  royal city with its magnificent gates and hundred towers, and the golden  balls and crosses on the spires began to shine. He could distinguish every  leaf on the trees, saw the birds flying past, and the gnats dancing in the  air. He took a needle out of his pocket, and as he could thread it as well  as ever he had done, his heart danced with delight.
He threw himself on his knees, thanked God for the mercy he had shown him,  and said his morning prayer, not forgetting to pray for the poor sinners  who were hanging there swinging against each other in the wind like the  pendulums of clocks. Then he took his bundle on his back and soon forgot  the sorrow he had endured, and went on his way singing and whistling.
The first thing he came to was a brown foal freely running about the  field. He caught it by the mane, and wanted to mount it and ride into the  town. The foal, however, begged for its freedom. "I am still too young,"  it said. "Even a light tailor such as you are would break my back in two.  Let me go until I have grown strong. Perhaps a time may come when I can  reward you for it."
"Run off," said the tailor. "I see that you are still only a  whippersnapper."  He gave it a touch on its back with a switch, whereupon it kicked up its  hind legs for joy, jumped over hedges and ditches, and galloped away into  the open country.
The little tailor had eaten nothing since the day before. "The sun fills  my eyes," he said, "but bread does not fill my mouth. The first thing that  comes my way and is even half edible will have to suffer for it."
In the meantime a stork stepped solemnly over the meadow towards him.  "Stop, stop," cried the tailor, and seized him by the leg. "I don't know  if you are good to eat or not, but my hunger leaves me no great choice. I  must cut your head off, and roast you."
"Don't do that," replied the stork. "I am a sacred bird that brings  mankind great profit, and no one harms me. If you spare my life I will be  able do you good in some other way."
"Then be off, cousin longlegs," said the tailor. The stork rose up, let  its long legs hang down, and flew gently away.
"What's to be the end of this?" said the tailor to himself at last. "My  hunger grows greater and greater, and my stomach more and more empty.  Whatever comes in my way now is lost."
Then he saw a couple of young  ducks which were on a pond come swimming towards him. "You come just at  the right moment," said he, and laid hold of one of them and was about to  wring its neck.
With this an old duck which was hidden among the reeds, began to squawk  loudly. She swam to him with open beak, begging him urgently to spare her  dear children. "Can you not imagine," said she, "how your mother would  mourn if someone wanted to carry you off, and do an end to you."
"Quiet down," said the good-natured tailor. "You shall keep your  children," and he set the captured one back into the water.
When he turned around, he was standing in front of an old tree which was  partly hollow, and saw some wild bees flying in and out of it. "There I  shall find the reward of my good deed," said the tailor. "The honey will  refresh me."
But the queen bee came out and threatened him, saying, "If you touch my  people and destroy my nest our stings shall pierce your skin like ten  thousand red-hot needles. But if you leave us in peace and go your way we  will do you a service for it another time."
The little tailor saw that here also nothing was to be done. Three dishes  empty and nothing on the fourth is a bad dinner. He dragged himself  therefore with his starved-out stomach into the town, and as it was just  striking twelve, all was ready-cooked for him in the inn, and he was able  to sit down at once to dinner.
When he was satisfied he said, "Now I will get to work." He went around  the town, sought a master, and soon found a good situation. Because he  already had thoroughly learned his trade, it was not long before he became  famous, and everyone wanted to have a new coat made by the little tailor.  His reputation grew day by day.
"I can go no further in skill," said he, "and yet things improve every  day." At last the king appointed him court tailor.
But strange things do happen in the world. On that very same day his  former  comrade the shoemaker also became court shoemaker. When the latter caught  sight of the tailor, and saw that he once more had two healthy eyes, his  conscience troubled him. "Before he takes revenge on me," he thought to  himself, "I must dig a pit for him."
He, however, who digs a pit for another, falls into it himself. In the  evening when work was over and it was growing dark, he sneaked to the king  and said, "Your majesty, the tailor is an arrogant fellow and has boasted  that he will get the golden crown back again that was lost ages ago."
"That would please me," said the king, and the next morning he had the  tailor brought  before him, and ordered him to get the crown back again, or  to leave the city forever.
"Aha," thought the tailor. "A rogue gives more than he has. If the  bad-tempered king wants me to do what no one else can do, I will not wait  until morning, but will leave town at once."
Therefore he tied up his bundle, but once outside the gate he could not  help being sorry to give up his good fortune and turn his back on the  city in which all had gone so well for him. He came to the pond where he  had made the acquaintance of the ducks. At that very moment the old one  whose young ones he had spared was sitting there by the shore, preening  herself with her beak. She knew him again instantly, and asked why he was  hanging his head so.
"You will not be surprised when you hear what has happened to me," replied  the tailor, and told her his fate.
"If that is all," said the duck, "we can help you. The crown fell into the  water, and it lies down below at the bottom. We will soon bring it up  again for you. In the meantime just spread out your handkerchief on the  bank."
She dove down with her twelve young ones, and in five minutes she was up  again with the crown resting on her wings. The twelve young ones were  swimming round about with their beaks under it, helping to carry  it. They swam to the shore and put the crown on the handkerchief. No one  can imagine how magnificent the crown was. When the sun shone on it, it  gleamed like a hundred thousand carbuncles. The tailor tied his  handkerchief together by the four corners and carried it to the king, who  was full of joy, and hung a gold chain around the tailor's neck.
When the shoemaker saw that the one trick had failed, he contrived a  second, and went to the king and said, "Your majesty, the tailor has  become insolent again. He boasts that he can copy in wax the whole of the  royal palace, with everything that pertains to it, movable or immovable,  inside and out."
The king sent for the tailor and ordered him to copy in wax the whole of  the royal palace, with everything that pertained to it, movable or  immovable, inside and out. And failing this, or if so much as one nail on  the wall were missing, he should be imprisoned underground for the rest of  his life.
The tailor thought, "It gets worse and worse. No one can endure this," and  he threw his bundle on his back, and went forth. When he came to the  hollow  tree, he sat down and hung his head. The bees came flying out, and the  queen bee asked him if he had a stiff neck, since he hung his head so.
"Oh no," answered the tailor, "something quite different weighs me down,"  and he told her what the king had demanded of him.
The bees began to buzz and hum amongst themselves, and the queen bee said,  "Just go home again, but come back tomorrow at this time, and bring a  large cloth with you, and then all will be well."
So he turned back again, but the bees flew to the royal palace and  straight into it through the open windows, crept into every corner, and  inspected everything most carefully. Then they hurried back and modeled  the palace in wax so quickly that anyone looking on would have thought it  was growing before his eyes. By the evening all was ready, and when the  tailor came the next morning, the whole splendid building was there, and  not  one nail in the wall or tile on the roof was missing. And at the same time  it was delicate and white as snow, and smelled sweet as honey. The tailor  wrapped it carefully in his cloth and took it to the king, who could not  admire it enough, placed it in his largest hall, and in return for it  presented the tailor with a large stone house.
The shoemaker, however, did not give up, but went for the third time to  the king and said, "Your majesty, the tailor has heard that no water will  spring up in the castle's courtyard, but he has boasted that he can create  a fountain in the middle of the courtyard as tall as a man and as clear as  crystal."
Then the king ordered the tailor to be brought before him and said, "If a  stream of water does not rise in my courtyard by tomorrow as you have  promised, in that very place the executioner shall make you shorter by a  head."
The poor tailor did not take long to think about it, but hurried out to  the gate, and because this time it was a matter of life and death to him,  tears rolled down his face.
While he was thus sorrowfully going forth, the foal to which he had  formerly given its liberty, and which had now become a beautiful chestnut  horse, came leaping towards him. "The time has come," it said to the  tailor, "when I can repay you for your good deed. I already know what you  need, and you shall soon have help. Climb on; my back can carry two of  you."
The tailor's courage came back to him. He jumped up in one bound, and the  horse went full speed into the city, and immediately to the castle's  courtyard. It galloped as quick as lightning three times around it, the  third time falling down. At that instant there was a terrific clap of  thunder, a fragment of earth in the middle of the courtyard sprang like a  cannonball into the air and over the castle. Directly afterward a jet of  water rose as high as a man on horseback, and the water was as pure as  crystal, and the sunbeams began to dance on it. When the king saw this he  arose in amazement, and went and embraced the tailor in the sight of all  men.
But good fortune did not last long. The king had daughters aplenty, each  one more beautiful than the others, but he had no son. So the malicious  shoemaker went to the king a fourth time, and said, "Your majesty, the  tailor has not given up his arrogance. He has now boasted that if he  liked, he could cause a son to be brought to his majesty through the air."
The king summoned the tailor and said, "If you cause a son to be brought  to me within nine days, you shall have my eldest daughter to wife."
"The reward is indeed great," thought the little tailor. "One would  willingly do something for it, but the cherries grow too high for me. If I  climb for them, the branch will break beneath me, and I shall fall."
He went home, seated himself cross-legged on his worktable, and thought  over what was to be done. "It can't be managed," he cried at last. "I will  go away after all. I cannot live in peace here."
He tied up his bundle and hurried away to the gate. When he got to the  meadow, he perceived his old friend the stork, who was walking backwards  and forwards like a philosopher. Sometimes he stood still, looking closely  at a frog, than finally swallowing it down. The stork came to him and  greeted  him.
"I see," he began, "that you have your pack on your back. Why are you  leaving town?"
The tailor told him what the king had required of him, and how he could  not perform it, and lamented his misfortune.
"Don't let that turn your hair gray," said the stork, "I will help you out  of your difficulty. For a long time now, I have been carrying infant  children into the city, so this time, I can fetch a little prince out of  the well. Go home and take it easy. Nine days from now go to the royal  palace, and I will arrive there as well."
The little tailor went home, and at the appointed time was at the castle.  Not long afterward the stork flew up and tapped at the window. The tailor  opened it, and cousin longlegs came in carefully and walked with solemn  steps over the smooth marble pavement. In his beak he had a baby that was  as lovely as an angel, and who stretched out his little hands to the  queen. The stork laid him in her lap, and she caressed him and kissed him,  and was beside herself with delight. Before flying away, the stork took  his traveling bag off his back and handed it to the queen. In it  there were little paper parcels with colored sweets, and they were divided  amongst the little princesses. The eldest, however, received none of them,  but instead got the merry tailor for a husband.
"It seems to me," he said, "that I have won the highest prize. My mother  was right after all. She always said that whoever trusts in God and has  only good luck can never fail."
The shoemaker had to make the shoes in which the little tailor danced at  the wedding festival, after which he was commanded to quit the town for  ever. The road to the forest led him to the gallows. Worn out with anger,  rage, and the heat of the day, he threw himself down. When he had closed  his eyes and was about to sleep, the two crows flew down from the heads of  the men who were hanging there and pecked his eyes out. In his madness he  ran into the forest and must have died there of hunger, for no one has  seen him or heard of him again.



The Willful Child
Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm



The Little Old Man Made Young by Fire

Peter had compassion and said, "Lord and master, if it please you, cure his ailments, that he may earn his own bread."
The Lord said gently, "Smith, lend me your forge and put some coals on for me, and then I will make this sick old man young again."
The smith was quite willing. Saint Peter pumped the bellows, and when the coal fire sparkled up large and high, our Lord took the little old man, pushed him into the forge in the middle of the red fire, so that he glowed like a rosebush, and praised God with a loud voice.
After that the Lord went to the quenching-tub, put the glowing little man into it so that the water closed over him, and after he had carefully cooled him, he gave him his blessing, when, behold, the little man sprang nimbly out, looking fresh, upright, healthy, and as if he were twenty years old.
The smith, who had watched everything closely and attentively, invited them all to supper. Now he had an old half-blind, hunchbacked mother-in-law. She went to the youth and asked earnestly if the fire had burned him much.
He answered that he had never felt better, and that he had sat in the glowing coals as if he had been in cool dew.
The youth's words echoed in the the old woman's ears all night long, and early the next morning, after the Lord had gone on his way again and had heartily thanked the smith, the latter thought he might make his old mother-in-law young again in the same way, for he had watched everything very carefully, and it used the skills of his trade. Therefore he called to her, asking her if she, too, would like to go prancing about like an eighteen-year-old girl.
Because the youth had come out of it so well, she said, "With all my heart."
So the smith made a large fire, and pushed the old woman into it. She twisted about this way and that, uttering horrible cries of murder.
"Sit still. Why are you screaming and jumping about so? I still have to blow the fire hotter," he cried, then pumped the bellows again, until all her rags were all afire.
The old woman cried without ceasing, and the smith thought to himself, "It's not going exactly right." Then he took her out and threw her into the quenching-tub. She screamed so loudly that the smith's wife upstairs and her daughter-in-law heard it, and they both ran downstairs, and saw the old woman lying in a heap in the tub, howling and screaming, with her face wrinkled and shriveled and all out of shape.

The Duration of Life

"Thirty years," answered God. "Is that all right with you?"
"Oh, Lord," replied the donkey, "that is a long time. Think of my tiresome  existence carrying heavy loads from morning until night, dragging bags of  grain to the mill so that others might eat bread, only to be cheered along  and refreshed with kicks and blows! Spare me part of this long time."
So God had mercy and gave him eighteen years. The donkey went away  satisfied, and the dog made his appearance.
"How long do you want to live?" said God to him. "Thirty years was too  much for the donkey, but you will be satisfied with that long."
"Lord," answered the dog. "Is that your will? Just think how much I have  to run. My feet will not hold out so long. And what can I do but growl and  run from one corner to another after I have lost my voice for barking and  my teeth for biting?"
God saw that he was right, and he took away twelve years. Then came the  monkey.
"Surely you would like to live thirty years," said the Lord to him. "You  do not need to work like the donkey and the dog, and are always having  fun."
"Oh, Lord," he answered, "so it appears, but it is different. When it  rains porridge, I don't have a spoon. I am always supposed to be playing  funny tricks and making faces so people will laugh, but when they give me  an apple and I bite into it, it is always sour. How often is sorrow hidden  behind a joke. I cannot put up with all that for thirty years!"
God had mercy and gave him ten years. Finally man made his appearance.  Cheerful, healthy, and refreshed, he asked God to determine the duration  of his life.
"You shall live thirty years," spoke the Lord. "Is that enough for you?"
"What a short time!" cried the man. "When I have built a house and a fire  is burning on my own hearth, when I have planted trees that blossom and  bear fruit, and am just beginning to enjoy life, then I am to die. Oh,  Lord, extend my time."
"I will add the donkey's eighteen years," said God.
"That is not enough," replied the man.
"You shall also have the dog's twelve years."
"Still too little."
"Well, then," said God, "I will give you the monkey's ten years as well,  but you shall receive no more."
The man went away, but he was not satisfied.
Thus man lives seventy years. The first thirty are his human years, and  they quickly disappear. Here he is healthy and happy; he works with  pleasure, and enjoys his existence. The donkey's eighteen years follow.  Here one burden after the other is laid on him; he carries the grain that  feeds others, and his faithful service is rewarded with kicks and blows.  Then come the dog's twelve years, and he lies in the corner growling, no  longer having teeth with which to bite. And when this time is past, the  monkey's ten years conclude. Now man is weak headed and foolish; he does  silly things and becomes a laughingstock for children.



Death's Messengers

"I am Death," answered the other one. "No one resists me, and you too must  obey my orders."
But the giant refused, and began to wrestle with Death. It was a long,  violent battle, and finally the giant got the upper hand, and knocked  Death down with his fist, causing him to collapse by a stone. The giant  went on his way, and Death lay there conquered, so weak that he could not  get up again.
"What is to come of this?" he said. "If I stay lying here in a corner, no  one will die in the world, and it will become so filled with people that  they won't have room to stand beside one another."
Meanwhile a young man came down the road. Vigorous and healthy, he was  singing a song and looking this way and that. Seeing the half-conscious  individual, he approached him with compassion, raised him up, gave him a  refreshing drink from his flask, and waited until he regained his  strength.
"Do you know," asked the stranger, as he stood up, "who I am, and whom you  have helped onto his legs again?"
"No," answered the youth, "I do not know you."
"I am Death," he said. "I spare no one, nor can make an exception with  you. However, so you may see that I am grateful, I promise you that I will  not attack you without warning, but instead will send my messengers to you  before I come and take you away."
"Good," said the youth. "It is to my benefit that I shall know when you  are coming, and that I will be safe from you until then."
Then he went on his way, and was cheerful and carefree, and lived one day  at a time. However, youth and good health did not last long. Soon came  sickness and pain, which tormented him by day and deprived him of his rest  by night.
"I shall not die," he said to himself, "for Death will first send his  messengers, but I do wish that these wicked days of sickness were over."
Regaining his health, he began once more to live cheerfully. Then one day  someone tapped on his shoulder.
He looked around, and death was standing behind him, who said, "Follow me.  The hour of your departure from this world has come."
"What?" replied the man. "Are you breaking your word? Did you not promise  me that you would send your messengers to me before you yourself would  come? I have not seen a one of them."
"Be still!" answered Death. "Have I not sent you one messenger after  another? Did not fever come and strike you, and shake you, and throw you  down? Has not dizziness numbed your head? Has not gout pinched your limbs?  Did your ears not buzz? Did toothache not bite into your cheeks? Did your  eyes not darken? And furthermore, has not my own brother Sleep reminded  you every night of me? During the night did you not lie there as if you  were already dead?"
The man did not know how to answer, so he surrendered to his fate and went  away with Death.



The Hare and the Hedgehog



Eve's Unequal Children

After a considerable time had gone by, God sent an angel to them to announce that he himself was coming to inspect their household. Eve, delighted that the Lord should be so gracious, cleaned her house diligently, decorated it with flowers, and spread rushes on the floor. Then she brought in her children, but only the good-looking ones. She washed and bathed them, combed their hair, put freshly laundered shirts on them, and cautioned them to be polite and well-behaved in the presence of the Lord. They were to bow down before him courteously, offer to shake hands, and to answer his questions modestly and intelligently.
The ugly children, however, were not to let themselves be seen. She hid one of them beneath the hay, another in the attic, the third in the straw, the fourth in the stove, the fifth in the cellar, the sixth under a tub, the seventh beneath the wine barrel, the eighth under an old pelt, the ninth and tenth beneath the cloth from which she made their clothes, and the eleventh and twelfth under the leather from which she cut their shoes.
She had just finished when someone knocked at the front door. Adam looked through a crack, and saw that it was the Lord. He opened the door reverently, and the Heavenly Father entered. There stood the good-looking children all in a row. They bowed before him, offered to shake hands, and knelt down.
The Lord began to bless them. He laid his hands on the first, saying, "You shall be a powerful king," did the same thing to the second, saying, "You a prince," to the third, "You a count," to the fourth, "You a knight," to the fifth, "You a nobleman," to the sixth, "You a burgher," to the seventh, "You a merchant," to the eighth, "You a scholar." Thus he bestowed his richest blessings upon them all.
When Eve saw that the Lord was so mild and gracious, she thought, "I will bring forth my ugly children as well. Perhaps he will bestow his blessings on them too." So she ran and fetched them from the hay, the straw, the stove, and wherever else they were hidden away. In they came, the whole coarse, dirty, scabby, sooty lot of them.
The Lord smiled, looked at them all, and said, "I will bless these as well."
He laid his hands on the first and said to him, "You shall be a peasant," to the second, "You a fisherman," to the third, "You a smith," to the fourth, "You a tanner," to the fifth, "You a weaver," to the sixth, "You a shoemaker," to the seventh, "You a tailor," to the eighth, "You a potter," to the ninth, "You a teamster," to the tenth, "You a sailor," to the eleventh, "You a messenger," to the twelfth, "You a household servant, all the days of your life."
When Eve had heard all this she said, "Lord, how unequally you divide your blessings. All of them are my children, whom I have brought into the world. You should favor them all equally."
But God replied, "Eve, you do not understand. It is right and necessary that the entire world should be served by your children. If they were all princes and lords, who would plant grain, thresh it, grind and bake it? Who would forge iron, weave cloth, build houses, plant crops, dig ditches, and cut out and sew clothing? Each shall stay in his own place, so that one shall support the other, and all shall be fed like the parts of a body."
Then Eve answered, "Oh, Lord, forgive me, I spoke too quickly to you. Let your divine will be done with my children as well."

The Nixie in the Pond

One morning he got up before daybreak and went outside, thinking that  the fresh air would lighten his heart. As he was walking across the mill  dam, the first sunbeam was just appearing, and he heard something rippling  in the pond.
Turning around, he saw a beautiful woman rising slowly out of the  water. Her long hair, which she was holding above her shoulders with her  soft hands, flowed down on both sides, and covered her white body.  He saw  very well that she was the nixie of the pond, and he was so frightened  that he did not know whether to run away or stay where he was. But the  nixie, speaking with a soft voice, called him by name and asked him why he  was so sad.
At first the miller was speechless, but when he heard her speak so  kindly, he took heart and told her how he had lived with good fortune and  wealth, but that now he was so poor that he did not know what to do.
"Be at ease," answered the nixie. "I will make you richer and happier  than you have ever been before. You must only promise to give me that  which has just been born in your house."
"What else can that be," thought the miller, "but a young dog or a  young cat," and he promised her what she demanded.
The nixie descended into the water again, and consoled and in good  spirits he hurried back to his mill. He had not yet arrived there when the  maid came out of the front door and called out to him that he should  rejoice, for his wife had given birth to a little boy.
The miller stood there as though he had been struck by lightning. He  saw very well that the cunning nixie had known this and had cheated him.  With his head lowered he went to his wife's bed. When she said, "Why are  you not happy with the beautiful boy?" he told her what had happened to  him, and what kind of a promise he had given to the nixie.
"What good to me are good fortune and prosperity," he added, "if I am  to lose my child? But what can I do?"
Even the relatives who had come to congratulate them did not have any  advice for him.
In the meantime, good fortune returned to the miller's house. He  succeeded in everything that he undertook. It was as though the trunks and  strongboxes filled themselves of their own accord, and as though money in  a chest multiplied overnight. Before long his wealth was greater than it  had ever been before. However, it did not bring him happiness without  concern, for his agreement with the nixie tormented his heart. Whenever he  passed the pond he feared she might appear and demand payment of his debt.
He never allowed the boy himself to go near the water. "Beware!" he  said to him. "If you touch the water a hand will appear, take hold of you,  and pull you under."
However, year after year passed, and the nixie made no further  appearance, so the miller began to feel at ease.
The boy grew up to be a young man and was apprenticed to a huntsman.  When he had learned this trade and had become a skilled huntsman, the lord  of the village took him into his service. In the village there lived a  beautiful and faithful maiden whom the huntsman liked, and when his master  noticed this, he gave him a little house. The two were married, lived  peacefully and happily, and loved each other sincerely.
One day the huntsman was pursuing a deer. When the animal ran out of  the woods and into an open field he followed it and finally brought it  down with a single shot.
He did not notice that he was in the vicinity of the dangerous  millpond, and after he had dressed out the deer, he went to the water in  order to wash his blood-stained hands. However, he had scarcely dipped  them into the water when the nixie emerged. Laughing, she wrapped her wet  arms around him, then pulled him under so quickly that waves splashed over  him.
When it was evening and the huntsman did not return home, his wife  became frightened. She went out to look for him. He had often told her  that he had to be on his guard against the nixie's snares, and that he did  not dare to go near the millpond, so she already suspected what had  happened. She hurried to the water, and when she found his hunting bag  lying on the bank, she could no longer have any doubt of the misfortune.  Crying and wringing her hands, she called her beloved by name, but to no  avail. She hurried across to the other side of the millpond, and called  him anew. She cursed the nixie with harsh words, but no answer followed.  The surface of the water remained calm; only the moon's half face stared  steadily back up at her.
The poor woman did not leave the pond. With fast strides, never  stopping to rest, she walked around it again and again, sometimes in  silence, sometimes crying out loudly, sometimes sobbing softly. Finally  her strength gave out, and she sank down to the ground, falling into a  heavy sleep. She was soon immersed in a dream.
At that moment, the poor woman awoke. It was already daylight, and she  decided at once to follow her dream. With difficulty she climbed the  mountain, and everything was just as she had seen it during the night. The  old woman received her kindly, showing her a chair where she was to sit.
"You must have met with misfortune," she said, "having sought out my  lonely cottage."
The woman related with tears what had happened to her.
"Be comforted," said the old woman. "I will help you. Here is a golden  comb for you. Wait until the full moon has risen, then go to the millpond,  sit down on the bank and comb your long black hair with this comb. When  you are finished set it down on the bank, and you will see what will  happen."
The woman returned home, but the time passed slowly for her until the  full moon came. Finally the shining disk appeared in the heaven, and she  went out to the millpond, sat down, and combed her long black hair with  the golden comb. When she was finished she set it down at the water's  edge. Before long there came a motion from beneath the water. A wave  arose, rolled onto the bank, and carried the comb away with it. In not  more time than it took for the comb to sink to the bottom, the surface of  the water parted, and the huntsman's head emerged. He said nothing, only  looking at his wife with sorrowful glances. That same instant a second  wave rushed up and covered her husband's head. Then everything vanished.  The millpond lay as peaceful as before, with only the face of the full  moon shining on it.
Filled with sorrow, the woman returned, but she saw the old woman's  cottage in a dream.
The next morning she again set out and told her sorrows to the wise  woman. The old woman gave her a golden flute, and said, "Wait until the  full moon comes again, then take this flute. Sit on the bank and play a  beautiful tune on it. When you are finished set it in the sand. Then you  will see what will happen."
The woman did what the old woman had told her to do. No sooner was the  flute lying in the sand than there was a motion from beneath the water,  and a wave rushed up and carried the flute away with it. Immediately  afterwards the water parted, and not only her husband's head, but half of  his body emerged as well. He stretched out his arms longingly towards her,  but a second wave rushed up, covered him, and pulled him down again.
"Oh, what does it help me," said the unhappy woman, "for me only to see  my beloved and then to lose him again?"
Despair filled her heart anew, but a dream led her a third time to the  old woman's house. She went there, and the wise woman gave her a golden  spinning wheel, comforted her, and said, "Everything is not yet fulfilled.  Wait until the full moon comes, then take the spinning wheel, sit on the  bank, and spin the spool full. When you have done this place the spinning  wheel at the water's edge, and you will see what will happen."
The woman did everything exactly as she had been told. As soon as the  full moon appeared she carried the golden spinning wheel to the bank, and  span diligently until she was out of flax, and the spool was completely  filled with thread. She had scarcely placed the wheel on the bank when  there was a more violent motion than before from the water's depth. Then a  powerful wave rushed up and carried the wheel away with it.
Immediately the head and the whole body of her husband emerged in a  waterspout. He quickly jumped to the bank, caught his wife by the hand,  and fled. They had gone only a little distance when the entire millpond  arose with a terrible roar, then with terrible force streamed out across  the countryside. The fugitives saw death before their eyes, when the wife  in her terror called out for the old woman to help them, and they were  instantly transformed, she into a toad, he into a frog.
The flood which had overtaken them could not destroy them, but it  separated them and carried them far away. When the water receded and they  both reached dry land again, their human forms returned again, but neither  knew where the other one was. They found themselves among strange people  who did not know their native land. High mountains and deep valleys lay  between them. In order to earn a living, they both had to herd sheep. For  long years they drove their flocks through fields and woods, and were  filled with sorrow and longing.
One day when spring had once again broken forth on the earth, they both  went out with their flocks, and as chance would have it, they moved toward  one another. He saw a herd on a distant mountainside and drove his sheep  toward it. They met in a valley but did not recognize one another, but  they were happy that they were no longer so alone. From then on every day  they drove their flocks next to each other. They did not speak much, but  they did feel comforted.
One evening when the full moon was shining in the sky, and the sheep  were already at rest, the shepherd took his flute out of his pocket and  played on it a beautiful but sorrowful tune. When he had finished he saw  that the shepherdess was crying bitterly.
"Why are you crying? he asked.
"Oh," she answered, " the full moon was shining like this when I played  that tune on the flute for the last time, and my beloved's head emerged  out of the water."
He looked at her, and it was as though a veil fell from his eyes. He  recognized his beloved wife, and when she looked at him, with the moon  shining on his face, she recognized him as well. They embraced and kissed  one another, and no one needs to ask if they were happy.

The Gifts of the Little People

An old man, somewhat larger than the others, sat in their midst. He wore a brightly colored jacket, and his ice-gray beard hung down over his chest. Filled with amazement, the two wanderers stopped and watched the dance. The old man motioned to them that they too should join in, and the little people voluntarily opened their circle.
The goldsmith, who had a hump on his back, and -- like all hunchbacks -- was forward enough, stepped right up. The tailor was at first a little shy and held back, but as soon as he saw what fun it was, he too took heart and joined in.
They closed the circle again, and the little people sang and danced wildly forth. However, the old man took a broad knife, that had been hanging from his belt, sharpened it, and as soon as it was sufficiently sharpened, looked at the strangers. They were frightened, but they did not have to worry for long. The old man grabbed the goldsmith and with the greatest speed smoothly shaved off his beard and the hair from his head. Then the same thing happened to the tailor.
Their fear disappeared when the old man patted them friendly on their shoulders as if he wanted to say that they had done well by letting it all happen without resisting. With his finger he pointed toward a pile of coal that lay nearby, and indicated to them through gestures that they should fill their pockets with it. They both obeyed, although they did not know of what use the coal would be to them. Then they went on their way to seek out a place to spend the night.
They had just arrived in the valley when the bell from a neighboring monastery struck twelve. The singing ceased instantly. Everyone disappeared, and the hill lay in lonely moonlight.
The two wanderers found shelter. Lying on beds of straw, they covered themselves with their jackets. They were so tired that they forgot to take the coal out of their pockets first.
They were awakened earlier than normal by a heavy weight pressing down on their limbs. They reached into their pockets, and could hardly believe their eyes when they saw that they were not filled with coal, but with pure gold. Further, their hair and their beards had also been fully restored.
Now they were rich. However, the goldsmith had twice as much as the tailor, because -- true to his greedy nature -- he had filled his pockets better. However much a greedy person has, he always wants more, so the goldsmith proposed to the tailor that they stay there another day in order to be able to gain even more wealth from the old man on the mountain that evening.
The tailor did not want to do this, and said: "I have enough and am satisfied. I am going to become a master, marry my pleasant object (as he called his sweetheart), and be a happy man."
However, to please the goldsmith, he agreed to stay one more day. That evening the goldsmith hung several pockets over his shoulders in order to be able to carry everything, and set off for the hill.
As had happened the night before, he found the little people dancing and singing. The old man shaved him smooth once again, and indicated that he should take some coal. Without hesitating he packed away as much as his pockets would hold, and then happily returned home. Covering himself with his jacket he said: "I can bear it, if the gold presses down on me." With the sweet premonition that he would awaken tomorrow as a very rich man, he fell asleep.
When he opened his eyes, he got up quickly in order to examine his pockets. How astounded he was, that he pulled out nothing but black coal, however often he reached inside. "Anyway, I still have the gold from the night before," he thought, and reached for it. Horrified, he saw that it too had turned back into coal. He struck himself on the forehead with his grimy hand, and felt that his entire head was as bald and smooth as his beardless chin.
Nor was that the end of his misfortune. Only now did he notice that in addition the hump on his back, a second one, of the same size, had grown onto his chest. Now he recognized the punishment for his greed and began to cry aloud.
The good tailor, who had been awakened by all this, consoled the unhappy man as best he could, saying: "You were my traveling companion, and you can stay with me now and live from my treasure."
He kept his word, but the poor goldsmith had to bear two humps and cover his bald head with a cap as long as he lived.

Knoist and His Three Sons



The Nail

At noon made a rest stop in a town. When he was about to continue on his way, a servant brought him his horse and said, "Sir, a nail is missing from the shoe on his left hind hoof."
"Let it be," answered the merchant. "The shoe will certainly stay on for the six hours that I still have to ride. I am in a hurry."
That afternoon, when he dismounted once again and had his horse fed, a servant came into the inn and said, "Sir, a shoe is missing from your horse's left hind hoof. Shall I take him to the blacksmith?"
"Let it be," answered the man. "The horse can manage for the few hours that I still have to ride. I am in a hurry."
He rode on, but before long the horse began to limp. It did not limp long before it began to stumble, and it did not stumble long before it fell down and broke a leg. The merchant had to leave the horse where it was, and unbuckle the duffel bag, load it onto his shoulder, and walk home on foot, not arriving there until very late that night.
"All this bad luck," he said to himself, "was caused by that cursed nail."
Haste makes waste.

Lean Lisa

One evening she was lying in bed, too tired to move a muscle but still  unable to fall asleep, when she poked her husband in the side with her  elbow and said, "Lenz, listen to what I just thought of. If I were to find  a florin, and you were to give me another one, then I'd borrow yet another  one, and you'd give me still another one, and then I would take the four  florins and buy a young cow."
The man agreed. "I don't know," he said, "where I'm to get that florin  I'm supposed to give you, but after you have the money to buy a cow, it  will be a good thing." Then he added, "I'm looking forward to the time  after the cow calves, so I can have some good refreshing milk to  drink."
"The milk is not for you," said the woman. "We will let the calf suck,  so it will grow large and fat, and we can sell it for a good price."
"Of course," said the man, "but it won't hurt anything if we take a  little milk."
"Who taught you about cows?" said the woman. "I won't allow it, whether  it will hurt anything or not. You can stand on your head, but you won't  get a single drop of milk. Lanky Lenz, just because you are always hungry,  you think that you can devour everything that my hard work brings in."
"Woman," said the man, "be quiet, or I'll plant one on the side of your  face."
"What!" she cried. "Are you threatening me! You glutton! You  good-for-nothing! You lazybones!"
She was reaching for his hair, but Lanky Lenz raised himself up, took  hold of both her skinny arms with one hand, then pushed her head into the  pillow with the other one. He held her there and let her scold until she  fell asleep from exhaustion.
The next morning when she woke up, I do not know whether she continued  to quarrel, or whether she went out to look for the florin that she wanted  to find.

The Hare and the Hedgehog



Spindle, Shuttle, and Needle

When the girl was fifteen years old the godmother took ill, called the  child to her bedside, and said, "My dear daughter, I feel that my end is  near. I leave to you this little house, that will protect you from wind  and weather; and also a spindle, a shuttle, and a needle, with which you  can earn your living."
She then laid her hands on the girl's head and blessed her, saying, "Keep  God in your heart, and it will go well with you." With that she closed her  eyes. When she was laid to rest in the earth, the girl walked behind the  coffin crying, and paid her last respects.
The girl now lived all alone in the little house. She was industrious. She  span, wove, and sewed; and everything she did was touched by the good old  woman's blessing. It was as though the flax multiplied itself in her  kitchen, and whenever she wove a piece of cloth or a carpet, or sewed a  shirt, she always immediately found a buyer who paid so well that she was  never in need and always had something to share with others.
At this time the king's son was traveling throughout the country in search  of a bride. He wanted neither a poor one nor a rich one. He said, "My wife  shall be the girl who is at the same time the poorest and the richest."
When he came to the village where the girl lived he asked, as he had done  everywhere, who was the richest girl and the poorest girl. First of all  they named for him the richest girl, and then said that the poorest girl  was the one who lived in the little house at the end of the village.
The rich girl sat in her doorway in all her finery, and when the prince  approached she bowed before him. He looked at her, said not a word, and  rode on.
When he arrived at the poor girl's house she was not standing in the  doorway, but instead was sitting in her little kitchen. He stopped his  horse and looked into the window, through which the bright sun was  shining, and saw the girl, sitting at her spinning wheel and diligently  spinning. She looked up, and when she saw the prince looking in she  blushed all over, closed her eyes, and continued to spin. I do not know if  the thread was entirely even at this time, but she continued to spin until  the prince had ridden away.
Then she stepped to the window and opened it, saying, "It is so hot in the  kitchen," but she continued to follow him with her eyes as long as she  could recognize the white feathers on his hat.
The girl sat back down in the kitchen and continued to work at her  spinning. Then a saying came to her that the old woman had sometimes said  while she was at work, and she sang it thus:

What happened? The spindled immediately jumped out of her hand and out the  door. Amazed, she stood up and watched it as it danced merrily across the  field, pulling along a glistening golden thread behind it. Before long it  had disappeared from her eyes.
Because the girl no longer had a spindle, she picked up her shuttle,  seated herself at her loom, and began to weave.
Now the spindle danced ever onward, and just as the thread came to an end  it reached the prince.
"What do I see?" he cried. "Is this spindle showing me the way?"
He turned his horse around and followed the golden thread back.
The girl was seated at her work singing:

Just then the shuttle jumped from her hand and out the door. However, it  began to weave a carpet before the threshold, a more beautiful one than  anyone had ever seen before. At its sides blossomed roses and lilies. In  its middle, against a golden background, there were rows of green upon  which hares and rabbits were jumping about. In between, stags and deer  stuck out their heads. Colorful birds sat above in the branches. The only  thing missing was their singing. The shuttle jumped back and forth. It was  as though everything was growing by itself.
Because her shuttle had run away, the girl now sat down to sew. She held  her needle in her hand and sang:

Then the needle jumped out of her fingers and flew about in the kitchen as  quick as lightning. It was as though invisible spirits were at work. The  table and benches were soon covered with green cloth, the chairs with  velvet; and silk curtains hung at the windows.
The needle had scarcely made its last stitch when the girl looked through  the window and saw the white feathers on the prince's hat. The spindle had  brought him here with its golden thread. He dismounted and walked across  the carpet into the house. When he stepped into the kitchen she was  standing there in her simple dress, but she was glowing in it like a rose  in a bush.
"You are the poorest, but also the richest," he said to her. "Come with  me. You shall be my bride."
She said nothing, but reached out her hand to him. Then he gave her a kiss  and led her outside, lifted her onto his horse, and took her to the royal  palace where their wedding was celebrated with great joy.
The spindle, shuttle, and needle were secured in the treasure chamber,  where they were kept in great honor.


The Peasant and the Devil

"You must be sitting on a treasure," said the peasant.
"Yes indeed," replied the devil, "on a treasure that contains more gold and silver than you have ever seen in your life."
"The treasure is in my field and belongs to me," said the peasant.
"It is yours," answered the devil, "if for two years you will give me one half of everything your field produces. I have enough money,  but I have a desire for the fruits of the earth."
The peasant entered into the bargain, saying, "To prevent any dispute from arising about the division, everything above the ground shall belong  to you, and everything beneath the ground to me."
The devil was quite satisfied with that, but the cunning peasant had  planted turnips.
Now when harvest time came the devil appeared and wanted to take away  his crop, but he found nothing except the yellow withered leaves, and the  happy peasant dug up his turnips.
"You got the best of me this time," said the devil, "but it won't happen again. Next time what grows above ground shall be yours, and  what is under it shall be mine."
"That is all right with me," answered the peasant. When planting time came the peasant did not plant turnips again, but wheat. The crop  ripened, and the peasant went into the field and cut the full stalks off at ground level. When the devil came he found nothing but the stubble, and he  angrily disappeared into a chasm in a cliff.
"That's the way one has to deal with foxes," said the peasant, then carried away the treasure.

The Crumbs on the Table

The hens said, "No, no, we won't go. If our mistress finds out, she will  beat us."
Then the rooster said, "She won't know anything about it. Come on. She  never gives us anything good."
Then the hens said once again, "No, no. Not ever. We are not going in  there."
But the rooster would give them no peace until they finally got onto the  table and began to eat the breadcrumbs with all their might. Just then the  mistress came home, quickly took hold of a stick, drove them off the table  and gave them a good beating.
Once outside the house, the hens said to the rooster, "Don't you see, see,  see, see, see, see, see?"
The rooster laughed and said, "Didn't I know it, know it, know it?"
And they went their way.


The Seven Swabians

All seven had decided to travel throughout the world seeking adventure  and performing great deeds. In order to arm themselves and assure their  safety, they thought it would be a good thing to have a single, but very  strong and very long spear made for them. Together all seven of them took  hold of this spear. The bravest and most manly of them was in front, and  that had to be Herr Schulz. The others followed in order, with Veitli  bringing up the rear.
Now one day in the month of July, when they had walked a long way but  still had a good piece to go before reaching the village where they were  going to spend the night, it happened that they were in a meadow just as  it was getting dark, and a large beetle or hornet flew by them from behind  a bush, buzzing in a threatening manner.
Herr Schulz was so frightened that he almost let go of the spear, and a  cold sweat broke out over his whole body. "Listen, listen," he shouted to  his comrades. "Good heaven, I hear a drum!"
Jackli, who was holding the spear behind him, and who had just smelled  I don't know what, said, "Something is here for sure. I can smell the  powder and the fuses."
Hearing these words, Herr Schulz began to run away, and he quickly  jumped over a fence, landing right on the teeth of a rake that had been  left lying there from haymaking. The handle hit him in the face with a  tremendous blow.
"Oh dear, oh dear," screamed Master Schulz. "Take me prisoner! I  surrender! I surrender!"
The other six all jumped toward him, one over the other, screaming, "If  you surrender, I surrender too. If you surrender, I surrender too."
But no enemy was there to bind them and take them away, so they finally  saw that they had been deceived. To keep the story from getting out and  causing them to look foolish and to be ridiculed, they all swore to one  another that they would say nothing about it until one of them should open  his mouth by mistake.
Then they traveled onward.
The second danger that they experienced cannot be compared to the first  one. A few days later their path led them across an unplowed field where a  hare was sitting asleep in the sun. Its ears were standing straight up,  and its large glassy eyes were wide open.
All of them were frightened at the sight of this terrible wild beast,  and they discussed with one another what would be the least dangerous  thing to do. If they were to run away, they feared that the monster would  pursue them and devour them all, even their skin and hair.
So they said, "We will have to fight a great and dangerous battle. Well  begun is half done!"
Then all seven took hold of the spear, Herr Schulz in front and Veitli  at the rear. Herr Schulz was always trying to hold the spear back, but at  the rear Veitli had become quite brave, and wanted to break loose. He  shouted:
But Hans knew how to answer this, and he said:
Michal shouted:
Then it was Jergli's turn, and he said:
Then Marli had a good idea, and he said to Veitli:
Veitli, however, did not obey, and Jackli said:
Then Herrr Schulz took courage, and said:
Then all together they attacked the dragon. Herr Schulz crossed himself  and prayed to God for assistance, but none of this helped, so, approaching  the enemy, he screamed in great fear, "Oh, oh, oh, oh!"
This awakened the hare, and the frightened animal darted swiftly away.  When Herr Schulz saw it thus fleeing from the battlefield, he shouted out  joyfully:
Then the band of Swabians went in search of further adventure, and they  came to the Mosel, a mossy, still, deep river. There are only a few  bridges over it, and in many places people have to cross it by boat. The  seven Swabians did not know this, so they shouted to a man who was working  on the opposite side of the river, and asked him how to get across.
Because of the distance and their language, the man did not understand  what they wanted, and he asked, in the dialect of Trier, "Wat? Wat?"
Herr Schulz thought he was saying, "Wade. Wade through the water," and  because he was in front, he set forth and began walking into the Mosel.  Before long he sank into the mud and into the deep waves that were driving  against him. However, the wind blew his hat to the opposite shore. A frog  sat down beside it, and croaked, "wat, wat, wat."
The other six heard this from the other side and said, "Aha, our  comrade Herr Schulz is calling us. If he can wade across, then why can't  we?"
So in a rush and all together they jumped into the water and drowned.
Thus one frog took the lives of all six of them, and not one of the  band of Swabians ever came home again.

The Ear of Grain

One day a woman was walking along a grain field, and her little child, who  was jumping along beside her, fell into a puddle and got his clothes  dirty. The mother tore off a handful of the beautiful ears of grain and  cleaned his clothes with them.
The Lord was just then passing by, and when he saw her doing this, he  became angry and said, "From this time forth the grain-stalk shall bear no  more ears of grain. Humans are not worthy of this heavenly gift."
The bystanders who heard this were horrified, fell to their knees, and  begged him to leave at least something on the grain-stalk, even if they  did not deserve it, at least for the sake of the innocent chickens, who  otherwise would starve to death.
The Lord, foreseeing the misery that would come, took pity on them and  granted their wish. Thus the ear at the top of the stalk remained, just as  it grows today.

