

 the frog king or iron heinrich 

 now one day -PRON- happen that the princess 's golden ball do not fall into -PRON- hand , that -PRON- hold up high , but instead -PRON- fall to the ground and roll right into the water . the princess follow -PRON- with -PRON- eye , but the ball disappear , and the well be so deep that -PRON- could not see -PRON- bottom . then -PRON- begin to cry . -PRON- cry louder and louder , and -PRON- could not console -PRON- . 
 as -PRON- be thus lament , someone call out to -PRON- , " what be the matter with -PRON- , princess ? -PRON- crying would turn a stone to pity . " 
 -PRON- look around to see where the voice be come from and see a frog , who have stick -PRON- thick , ugly head out of the water . " oh , -PRON- be -PRON- , old water - splasher , " -PRON- say . " i be cry because -PRON- golden ball have fall into the well . " 
 " be still and stop cry , " answer the frog . i can help -PRON- , but what will -PRON- give -PRON- if i br back -PRON- plaything ? " 
 " whatev -PRON- want , dear frog , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- clothe , -PRON- pearl and precious stone , and even the golden crown that i be wear . " 
 the frog answer , " i do not want -PRON- clothe , -PRON- pearl and precious stone , nor -PRON- golden crown , but if -PRON- will love -PRON- and accept -PRON- as a companion and playmate , and let -PRON- sit next to -PRON- at -PRON- table and eat from -PRON- golden plate and drink from -PRON- cup and sleep in -PRON- bed , if -PRON- will promise this to -PRON- , then -PRON- will dive down and bring -PRON- golden ball back to -PRON- . " 
 " oh , yes , " -PRON- say , " i promise all of that to -PRON- if -PRON- will just bring the ball back to -PRON- . " but -PRON- think , " what be this stupid frog try to say ? -PRON- just sit here in the water with -PRON- own kind and croak . -PRON- can not be a companion to a human . " 
 as soon as the frog hear -PRON- say " yes " -PRON- stick -PRON- head under and dove to the bottom . -PRON- paddle back up a short time later with the golden ball in -PRON- mouth and throw -PRON- onto the grass . the princess be fill with joy when -PRON- see -PRON- beautiful plaything once again , pick -PRON- up , and run off . 
 " wait , wait , " call the frog , " take -PRON- along . i can not run as fast as -PRON- . " but what do -PRON- help -PRON- , that -PRON- croak out after -PRON- as loudly as -PRON- could ? -PRON- pay no attention to -PRON- , but instead hurry home and soon forget the poor frog , who have to return again to -PRON- well . 
 the next day the princess be sit at the table with the king and all the people of the court , and be eat from -PRON- golden plate when something come creep up the marble step : plip , plop , plip , plop . as soon as -PRON- reach the top , there come a knock at the door , and a voice call out , " princess , young , open the door for -PRON- ! " 
 -PRON- run to see who be outside . -PRON- open the door , and the frog be sit there . frighten , -PRON- slam the door shut and return to the table . the king see that -PRON- heart be pound and ask , " -PRON- child , why be -PRON- afraid ? be there a giant outside the door who want to get -PRON- ? " 
 " oh , no , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- be a disgusting frog . " 
 " what do the frog want from -PRON- ? " 
 " oh , father dear , yesterday when i be sit near the well in the forest and playing , -PRON- golden ball fall into the water . and because i be cry so much , the frog bring -PRON- back , and because -PRON- insist , i promise -PRON- that -PRON- could be -PRON- companion , but i do not think that -PRON- could leave -PRON- water . but now -PRON- be just outside the door and want to come in . " 
 just then there come a second knock at the door , and a voice call out : 
 the king say , " what -PRON- have promise , -PRON- must keep . go and let the frog in . " 
 -PRON- go and open the door , and the frog hop in , then follow -PRON- up to -PRON- chair . -PRON- sit there and call out , " lift -PRON- up next to -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- hesitate , until finally the king command -PRON- to do -PRON- . when the frog be seat next to -PRON- -PRON- say , " now push -PRON- golden plate closer , so -PRON- can eat together . " 
 -PRON- do -PRON- , but one could see that -PRON- do not want to . the frog enjoy -PRON- meal , but for -PRON- every bite stick in -PRON- throat . finally -PRON- say , " i have eat all i want and be tired . now carry -PRON- to -PRON- room and make -PRON- bed so that -PRON- can go to sleep . " 
 the princess begin to cry and be afraid of the cold frog and do not dare to even touch -PRON- , and yet -PRON- be suppose to sleep in -PRON- beautiful , clean bed . 
 the king become angry and say , " -PRON- should not despise someone who have help -PRON- in time of need . " 
 -PRON- pick -PRON- up with two finger , carry -PRON- upstairs , and set -PRON- in a corner . as -PRON- be lie in bed , -PRON- come creep up to -PRON- and say , " i be tired , and i want to sleep as well as -PRON- do . pick -PRON- up or -PRON- will tell -PRON- father . " 
 with that -PRON- become bitterly angry and throw -PRON- against the wall with all -PRON- might . " now -PRON- will have -PRON- peace , -PRON- disgusting frog ! " 
 but when -PRON- fall down , -PRON- be not a frog , but a prince with beautiful friendly eye . and -PRON- be now , accord to -PRON- father 's will , -PRON- dear companion and husband . -PRON- tell -PRON- how -PRON- have be enchant by a wicked witch , and that -PRON- alone could have rescue -PRON- from the well , and that tomorrow -PRON- would go together to -PRON- kingdom . then -PRON- fall asleep . 
 the next morning , just as the sun be wake -PRON- , a carriage pull up , draw by eight horse . -PRON- have white ostrich feather on -PRON- head and be outfit with chain of gold . at the rear stand the young king 's servant , faithful heinrich . faithful heinrich have be so sadden by -PRON- master 's transformation into a frog that -PRON- have have to place three iron band around -PRON- heart to keep -PRON- from burst in grief and sorrow . the carriage be to take the king back to -PRON- kingdom . faithful heinrich lift -PRON- both inside and take -PRON- place at the rear . -PRON- be fill with joy over the redemption . after -PRON- have go a short distance , the prince hear a crack from behind , as though something have break . 
 -PRON- turn around and say , " heinrich , the carriage be break apart . " 
 once again , and then once again the prince hear a cracking sound and think that the carriage be break apart , but -PRON- be the band spring from faithful heinrich 's heart because -PRON- master be now redeem and happy . 

 cat and mouse in partnership 

 this good advice be follow , and -PRON- buy a pot of fat , but -PRON- do not know where to store -PRON- . finally , after much consideration , the cat say , " i know of no place where -PRON- will be good store up than in the church . no one dare take anything away from there . -PRON- will put -PRON- beneath the altar , and not touch -PRON- until -PRON- be ne -PRON- . " 
 so the pot be store safely away , but -PRON- be not long before the cat take a great longing for -PRON- , and say to the mouse , " i want to tell -PRON- , little mouse , that -PRON- cousin have bring a little son into the world , and -PRON- have ask -PRON- to be -PRON- godfather . -PRON- be white with brown spot , and i be to hold -PRON- over the baptismal font . let -PRON- go out today , and -PRON- look after the house by -PRON- . " 
 " yes , yes , " answer the mouse . " by all mean go , and if -PRON- get anything good to eat , think of -PRON- . i would like to drink a drop of sweet red christening wine -PRON- . " 
 all this , however , be untrue . the cat have no cousin , and have not be ask to be godfather . -PRON- go straight to the church , creep up to the pot of fat , begin to lick at -PRON- , and lick off the top of the fat . then -PRON- go for a stroll on the roof of the town , look out for opportunity , and then stretch out in the sun , lick -PRON- whisker whenever -PRON- think of the pot of fat . -PRON- do not return home until -PRON- be evening . 
 " well , here -PRON- be again , " say the mouse . " -PRON- must have have a happy day . " 
 " everything go well , " answer the cat . 
 " what name do -PRON- give the child ? " ask the mouse . 
 " top - off , " say the cat quite coolly . 
 " top - off ? " cry the mouse . " that be a very odd and uncommon name . be -PRON- a usual one in -PRON- family ? " 
 " what do that matter ? " , say the cat . " -PRON- be no bad than crumb - thief , as -PRON- godchild be call . " 
 before long the cat be seize by another fit of longing . -PRON- say to the mouse , " -PRON- must do -PRON- a favor , and once more manage the house alone for a day . i have be ask again to be godfather , and since the child have a white ring around -PRON- neck , i can not refuse . " 
 the good mouse consent . however , the cat creep behind the town wall to the church , and devour half the pot of fat . " nothing taste as good as that which one eat by oneself , " -PRON- say , and be quite satisfied with -PRON- day 's work . 
 when -PRON- arrive home the mouse ask , " what name be this child christen with ? " 
 " half - go , " answer the cat . 
 " half - go ? what be -PRON- say ? i have never hear that name in all -PRON- life . -PRON- will wager -PRON- be not in the almanac . " 
 the cat 's mouth soon again begin to water for the delicious good . " all good thing come in three , " -PRON- say to the mouse . " i have be ask to be godfather again . the child be totally black , only -PRON- have white paw . otherwise -PRON- have not a single white hair on -PRON- whole body . this only happen once every few year . -PRON- will let -PRON- go , will not -PRON- ? " 
 " top - off . half - go , " answer the mouse . " -PRON- be such odd name , that -PRON- make -PRON- stop and think . " 
 " here -PRON- sit at home , " say the cat , " with -PRON- dark gray fur coat and long braid of hair capture fantasy . that be because -PRON- do not go out in the daytime . " 
 during the cat 's absence the mouse clean the house , and put -PRON- in order , but the greedy cat devour all the rest of the fat . " one have peace only after everything be eat up , " -PRON- say to -PRON- . well filled and fat , -PRON- do not return home until nighttime . 
 the mouse immediately ask what name have be give to the third child . 
 " -PRON- will not like -PRON- either , " say the cat . " -PRON- name be all - go . " 
 " all - go ! " , cry the mouse . " that be the most worrisome name of all . i have never see -PRON- in print . all - go ! what can that mean ? " then -PRON- shake -PRON- head , curl -PRON- up , and lie down to sleep . 
 from this time forth no one invite the cat to be godfather , but when winter have come and there be no longer anything to be find outside , the mouse thought of -PRON- store food , and say , " come cat , -PRON- will go to -PRON- pot of fat which -PRON- have store up for -PRON- . -PRON- will taste good now . " 
 " yes , " answer the cat . " -PRON- will enjoy -PRON- as much as -PRON- would enjoy stick that dainty tongue of -PRON- out of the window . " 
 -PRON- set out on -PRON- way , but when -PRON- arrive , the pot of fat , to be sure , be still in -PRON- place , but -PRON- be empty . " alas , " say the mouse , " now i see what have happen . now -PRON- come to light . -PRON- be a true friend . -PRON- eat everything when -PRON- be serve as a godfather . first top off , then half do , then ... " 
 " be quiet ! " cry the cat . " one more word , and i will eat -PRON- too . " 
 " all go " be already on the poor mouse 's lip . -PRON- have scarcely speak -PRON- before the cat spring on -PRON- , seize -PRON- , and swallow -PRON- down . -PRON- see , that be the way of the world . 

 mary 's child 

 one morning the woodcutter , fill with sorrow , go out to -PRON- work in the wood . while -PRON- be chop wood suddenly there stand before -PRON- a beautiful tall woman with a crown of shin star on -PRON- head . 
 -PRON- say to -PRON- , " i be the virgin mary , mother of the baby jesus . -PRON- be poor and needy . bring -PRON- child to -PRON- . i will take -PRON- with -PRON- and be -PRON- mother and care for -PRON- . " 
 the woodcutter obey , fetch -PRON- child , and turn -PRON- over to the virgin mary , who take -PRON- up into heaven with -PRON- . there the child fare well . -PRON- eat sweeten bread and drink fresh milk . -PRON- clothe be of gold , and the little angel play with -PRON- . 
 when -PRON- be fourteen year old , the virgin mary summon -PRON- one day and say , " dear child , i be about to make a long journey . take care of these key to the thirteen door of heaven . -PRON- may open twelve of these door , and behold the glorious thing inside , but the thirteenth door , to which this little key belong , be forbid for -PRON- . be careful not to open -PRON- , or -PRON- will be unhappy . " 
 the girl promise to be obedient , and when the virgin mary be go , -PRON- begin to examine the dwelling of the kingdom of heaven . each day -PRON- open one of -PRON- , until -PRON- have be to all twelve . an apostle , surround by great brilliance , sit in each one . -PRON- rejoice in the magnificence and splendor , and the little angel who always accompany -PRON- rejoice with -PRON- . 
 now only the forbid door remain , and -PRON- feel a great desire to know what be hide behind -PRON- . -PRON- say to the little angel , " i will not open -PRON- all the way , nor will i will go inside , but i will only unlock -PRON- so that -PRON- can see just a little through the crack . " 
 " oh no , " say the little angel , " that would be a sin . the virgin mary have forbid -PRON- , and -PRON- may easily lead to unhappiness for -PRON- . " 
 to that -PRON- say nothing , but the desire in -PRON- heart be not still . to the contrary , -PRON- gnaw away , torment -PRON- , and would give -PRON- no rest . 
 then one day when the angel have all go out , -PRON- think , " i be entirely alone now , and i could peek in . if i do so , no one will ever know . " 
 -PRON- seek out the key , and as soon as -PRON- have -PRON- in -PRON- hand , -PRON- put -PRON- into the lock as well , and as soon as -PRON- be in the lock , -PRON- turn -PRON- around as well . the door spring open , and there -PRON- see the trinity sit in fire and brilliance . -PRON- stay there a little while , look at everything in amazement . then -PRON- put -PRON- finger a little way into the brilliance , and -PRON- finger turn entirely golden . immediately a great fear fall upon -PRON- . -PRON- slam the door shut , and run away . 
 the fear do not go away , do what -PRON- may . -PRON- heart pound furiously forth and would not become still . and the gold remain on -PRON- finger as well . -PRON- would not come off , no matter how much -PRON- wash and rub . 
 not long afterward , the virgin mary return from -PRON- journey . -PRON- summon the girl , and ask -PRON- to return the key of heaven . when the girl give the ring of key to -PRON- , the virgin look into -PRON- eye and say , " have -PRON- not open the thirteenth door as well . ? " 
 " no , " -PRON- reply . 
 then the virgin mary lay -PRON- hand on the girl 's heart , and feel how -PRON- pound and pound , and see well that -PRON- have disobey -PRON- order and have open the door . then -PRON- say further , " -PRON- do not do -PRON- for sure ? " 
 " no , " say the girl a second time . 
 then the virgin notice the finger that have turn golden from have touch the heavenly fire , and know well that the girl have sin , and -PRON- say a third time , " have -PRON- not do -PRON- ? " 
 " no , " say the girl a third time . 
 then the virgin mary say , " -PRON- have not obey -PRON- , and -PRON- have lie as well . -PRON- be no longer worthy to be in heaven . " 
 then the girl sink into a deep sleep , and when -PRON- awake -PRON- lie below on earth , in the middle of a wilderness . -PRON- want to cry out , but -PRON- could not bring forth a sound . -PRON- jump up and want to run away , but in wherever -PRON- turn , -PRON- be hold back by thick thorn hedge which -PRON- could not break through . in the wilderness where -PRON- be imprison there stand an old hollow tree . -PRON- would have to serve as -PRON- home . -PRON- creep inside -PRON- when night come , and sleep there . and when -PRON- storm and rain , -PRON- find shelter inside -PRON- , but -PRON- be a miserable life , and -PRON- cry bitterly when -PRON- think about how beautiful -PRON- have be in heaven , and how the angel have play with -PRON- . 
 root and wild berry be -PRON- only food , which -PRON- look for as far as -PRON- could go . in the fall -PRON- gather the fall nut and leaf , and carry -PRON- into the opening in the tree . the nut be -PRON- food during the winter , and when snow and ice come , -PRON- creep under the leaf like a poor little animal , so that -PRON- would not freeze . before long -PRON- clothe be rip to shreds , and one piece of -PRON- after another fall off -PRON- . 
 when the sun shine warmly again -PRON- go outside and sit in front of the tree . -PRON- long hair cover -PRON- on all side like a cloak . thus -PRON- sit year after year , feel the world 's misery and pain . 
 one day , when the tree be once again a fresh green , the king of the country be hunt in the wood . -PRON- follow a deer that have flee into the thicket that surround this part of the wood . get off -PRON- horse , -PRON- tear the brush aside and cut -PRON- a path with -PRON- sword . when -PRON- have at last force -PRON- way through , -PRON- see a wonderfully beautiful girl sit under the tree , cover entirely with -PRON- golden hair , down to -PRON- toe . 
 fill with amazement , -PRON- stand still and look at -PRON- , then -PRON- speak to -PRON- , say , " who be -PRON- ? why be -PRON- sit here in this wilderness ? " 
 but -PRON- give no answer , for -PRON- could not open -PRON- mouth . 
 the king continue , " will -PRON- go with -PRON- to -PRON- castle ? " 
 to this -PRON- just nod -PRON- head a little . the king take -PRON- into -PRON- arm , lift -PRON- onto -PRON- horse , and ride home with -PRON- . arrive at the royal castle , -PRON- have -PRON- dressed in beautiful clothing and give -PRON- an abundance of everything . although -PRON- could not speak , -PRON- be still so beautiful and charming that -PRON- fall in love -PRON- with all -PRON- heart , and -PRON- be not long before -PRON- marry -PRON- . 
 about a year later the new queen bring a son into the world . afterward the virgin mary appear to -PRON- in the night when -PRON- be lie alone in -PRON- bed , and say , " if -PRON- will tell the truth and confess that -PRON- unlock the forbid door , i will open -PRON- mouth and give -PRON- back -PRON- speech , but if -PRON- persevere in sin , and stubbornly deny -PRON- , i will take -PRON- newborn child away with -PRON- . " 
 the queen be allow to answer , but -PRON- remain obstinate , and say , " no , i do not open the forbid door , " and the virgin mary take the newborn child out of -PRON- arm and disappear with -PRON- . 
 the next morning when the child be not to be find , -PRON- be rumor among the people that the queen be a cannibal and have kill -PRON- own child . -PRON- hear all this and could say nothing to the contrary , but the king do not want to believe -PRON- , because -PRON- love -PRON- so much . 
 one year later the queen again bear a son . in the night the virgin mary again come to -PRON- , and say , " if -PRON- will confess that -PRON- open the forbid door , i will give -PRON- -PRON- child back and release -PRON- tongue , but if -PRON- continue in sin and deny -PRON- , then i will take this newborn child with -PRON- as well . " 
 then the queen say again , " no , i do not open the forbid door , " and the virgin take the child out of -PRON- arm , and take -PRON- away with -PRON- to heaven . 
 the next morning , when this child have disappear as well , the people loudly say that the queen have eat -PRON- , and the king 's councilor demand that -PRON- should be bring to justice . the king , however , love -PRON- so dearly that -PRON- would not believe -PRON- , and order the councilor , under threat of death , to say nothing more about -PRON- . 
 the follow year the queen give birth to a beautiful little daughter , and for a third time the virgin mary appear to -PRON- in the night . 
 -PRON- say , " follow -PRON- . " take the queen by the hand , -PRON- lead -PRON- to heaven , and show -PRON- there -PRON- two old child , who be laugh and play with the ball of the world . 
 when the queen rejoice at see this , the virgin mary say , " have -PRON- heart not yet soften ? if -PRON- will confess that -PRON- open the forbid door , i will give -PRON- back -PRON- two little son . " 
 but for a third time the queen answer , " no , i do not open the forbid door . " then the virgin let -PRON- sink down to earth again , and take away -PRON- third child as well . 
 the next morning , when -PRON- become know , all the people shout loudly , " the queen be a cannibal . -PRON- must be condemn . " and the king be no longer able to hold back -PRON- councilor . " 
 a trial be hold , and as -PRON- be not able to respond and defend -PRON- , -PRON- be condemn to be burn at the stake . wood be pile together . after -PRON- have be bind tightly to a stake , and the fire be begin to burn around -PRON- , the hard ice of pride melt . -PRON- heart be move by regret , and -PRON- think , " if only i could confess before -PRON- death that i open the door . " 
 then -PRON- voice come back to -PRON- , and -PRON- cry out loudly , " yes , mary , i do -PRON- ! " 
 immediately rain begin to fall from heaven , and -PRON- put out the fiery flame . a light broke forth above -PRON- , and the virgin mary descend . -PRON- have the two little son by -PRON- side , and the newborn daughter on -PRON- arm . speak kindly to -PRON- , -PRON- say , " whoever repent a sin and confess -PRON- will be forgive . " 
 then -PRON- give -PRON- the three child , release -PRON- tongue , and give -PRON- happiness for -PRON- entire life . 

 the story of a boy 
 who go forth to learn fear 

 now when something have to be do , -PRON- be always the old son who have to do -PRON- . however , if the father ask -PRON- fetch anything when -PRON- be late , or even bad , at night , and if the way lead through the churchyard or some other spooky place , -PRON- would always answer , " oh , no , father , i will not go there . -PRON- make -PRON- shudder ! " for -PRON- be afraid . 
 in the evening by the fire when story be tell that make one 's flesh creep , the listener sometimes say , " oh , that make -PRON- shudder ! " the young son would sit in a corner and listen with the other , but -PRON- could not imagine what -PRON- mean . 
 " -PRON- be always say , ' -PRON- make -PRON- shudder ! -PRON- make -PRON- shudder ! ' -PRON- do not make -PRON- shudder . that too must be a skill that i do not understand . " 
 now -PRON- happen that one day -PRON- father say to -PRON- , " listen , -PRON- there in the corner . -PRON- be get big and strong . -PRON- too will have to learn something by which -PRON- can earn -PRON- bread . see how -PRON- brother put -PRON- out , but there seem to be no hope for -PRON- . " 
 " well , father , " -PRON- answer , " i do want to learn something . indeed , if possible i would like to learn how to shudder . i do not understand that at all yet . " 
 the old son laugh when -PRON- hear that , and think to -PRON- , " dear god , what a dimwit that brother of -PRON- be . nothing will come of -PRON- as long as -PRON- live . as the twig be bent , so grow the tree . " 
 the father sigh , and answer -PRON- , " -PRON- may well learn to shudder , but -PRON- will not earn -PRON- bread by shudder . " 
 soon afterward the sexton come to the house on a visit , and the father complain to -PRON- about -PRON- trouble , tell -PRON- how -PRON- young son be so stupid in everything , that -PRON- know nothing and be learn nothing . " just think , " -PRON- say , " when i ask -PRON- how -PRON- be go to earn -PRON- bread , -PRON- actually ask to learn to shudder . " 
 " if there be nothing more than that , " reply the sexton , " -PRON- can learn that with -PRON- . just send -PRON- to -PRON- . i will plane off -PRON- rough edge . " 
 the father agree to do this , for -PRON- think , " -PRON- will do the boy well . " 
 so the sexton take -PRON- home with -PRON- , and -PRON- be to ring the church bell . a few day later the sexton awake -PRON- at midnight and tell -PRON- to get up , climb the church tower , and ring the bell . 
 " -PRON- will soon learn what -PRON- be to shudder , " -PRON- think . -PRON- secretly go there ahead of -PRON- . after the boy have reach the top of the tower , have turn around and be about to take hold of the bell rope , -PRON- see a white figure stand on the step opposite the sound hole . 
 " who be there ? " -PRON- shout , but the figure give no answer , neither move nor stir . " answer -PRON- , " shout the boy , " or get out of here . -PRON- have no business here at night . " 
 the sexton , however , remain stand there motionless so that the boy would think -PRON- be a ghost . 
 the boy shout a second time , " what do -PRON- want here ? speak if -PRON- be an honest fellow , or i will throw -PRON- down the stair . " 
 the sexton think , " -PRON- can not seriously mean that . " -PRON- make not a sound and stand as if -PRON- be make of stone . 
 then the boy shout to -PRON- for the third time , and as that also be to no avail , -PRON- run toward -PRON- and push the ghost down the stair . -PRON- fall down ten step and remain lie there in a corner . then the boy ring the bell , go home , and without say a word go to bed and fall asleep . 
 the sexton 's wife wait a long time for -PRON- husband , but -PRON- do not come back . finally -PRON- become frightened and wake up the boy , ask , " do not -PRON- know where -PRON- husband be ? -PRON- climb up the tower before -PRON- do . " 
 " no , " reply the boy , " but someone be stand by the sound hole on the other side of the step , and because -PRON- would neither give an answer nor go away , i take -PRON- for a thief and throw -PRON- down the step . go there and -PRON- will see if -PRON- be the one . i be sorry if -PRON- be . " 
 the woman run out and find -PRON- husband , who be lie in the corner moaning . -PRON- have break -PRON- leg . -PRON- carry -PRON- down , and then cry loudly -PRON- hurry to the boy 's father . " -PRON- boy , " -PRON- shout , " have cause a great misfortune . -PRON- throw -PRON- husband down the step , cause -PRON- to break -PRON- leg . take the good - for - nothing out of -PRON- house . " 
 the father be alarmed , and run to the sexton 's house , and scold the boy . " what evil trick be these ? the devil must have prompt -PRON- to do -PRON- . " 
 " father , " -PRON- reply , " do listen to -PRON- . i be completely innocent . -PRON- be stand there in the night like someone with evil intention . i do not know who -PRON- be , and i warn -PRON- three time to speak or to go away . " 
 " oh , " say the father , " i have experience nothing but unhappiness with -PRON- . get out of -PRON- sight . i do not want to look at -PRON- anymore . " 
 " yes , father , and gladly . just wait until daylight , and i will go forth and learn how to shudder . then i shall have a skill that will support -PRON- . " 
 " learn what -PRON- will , " say the father . " -PRON- be all the same to -PRON- . here be fifty taler for -PRON- . take -PRON- and go into the wide world , but tell no one where -PRON- come from , or who -PRON- father be , because i be ashamed of -PRON- . " 
 " yes , father , i will do just as -PRON- wish . if that be all -PRON- want from -PRON- , i can easily remember -PRON- . " 
 so at daybreak the boy put -PRON- fifty taler into -PRON- pocket , and go forth on the main road , continually say to -PRON- , " if only i could shudder ! if only i could shudder ! " 
 a man come up to -PRON- and hear this conversation that the boy be hold with -PRON- , and when -PRON- have walk a little farther to where -PRON- could see the gallow , the man say to -PRON- , " look , there be the tree where seven man get marry to the rope maker 's daughter , and be now learn how to fly . sit down beneath -PRON- , and wait until night come , and then -PRON- will learn how to shudder . " 
 " if there be nothing more than that , " answer the boy , " i can do -PRON- easily . but if i learn how to shudder that quickly , -PRON- shall have -PRON- fifty taler . just come back to -PRON- tomorrow morning . " 
 then the boy go to the gallow , sit down beneath -PRON- , and wait until evening . because -PRON- be cold , -PRON- make -PRON- a fire . however , at midnight there come up such a cold wind that in spite of -PRON- fire -PRON- could not get warm . and as the wind push the hanged man against each other , cause -PRON- to move to and fro , -PRON- think , " -PRON- be freeze down here next to the fire . those guy up there must really be freeze and suffering . " feel pity for -PRON- , -PRON- put up the ladder , and climb up , untie -PRON- , one after the other , and then bring down all seven . 
 then -PRON- stir up the fire , blow into -PRON- , and set -PRON- all around -PRON- to warm -PRON- . but -PRON- just sit there without move , and -PRON- clothe catch fire . so -PRON- say , " be careful , or i will hang -PRON- up again . " 
 the dead man , however , hear nothing and say nothing , and -PRON- let -PRON- rag continue to burn . this make -PRON- angry , and -PRON- say , " if -PRON- will not be careful , i can not help -PRON- . i do not want to burn up with -PRON- . " so -PRON- hang -PRON- up again all in a row . then -PRON- sit down by -PRON- fire and fall asleep . 
 the next morning the man come to -PRON- and want to have the fifty taler . -PRON- say , " well , do -PRON- know how to shudder ? " 
 " no , " -PRON- answer . " where would i have learn -PRON- ? those fellow up there do not open -PRON- mouth . -PRON- be so stupid that -PRON- let the few old rag which -PRON- have on -PRON- body catch fire . " 
 then the man see that -PRON- would not be get the fifty taler that day . -PRON- go away say , " never before have i meet such a fellow . " 
 the boy go on -PRON- way as well , and once more begin mutter to -PRON- , " oh , if only i could shudder ! oh , if only i could shudder ! " 
 a cart driver who be walk along behind -PRON- hear this and ask , " who be -PRON- ? " 
 " i do not know , " reply the boy . 
 then the cart driver ask , " where do -PRON- come from ? " 
 " i do not know . " 
 " who be -PRON- father ? " 
 " i be not permit to say . " 
 " what be -PRON- always mutter to -PRON- ? " 
 " oh , " reply the boy , " i want to be able shudder , but no one can teach -PRON- how . " 
 " stop that foolish chatter , " say the cart driver . " come , walk along with -PRON- , and i will see that i get a place for -PRON- . " 
 the boy go with the cart driver , and that evening -PRON- come to an inn where -PRON- decide to spend the night . on enter the main room , the boy again say quite loudly , " if only i could shudder ! if only i could shudder ! " 
 hear this , the innkeeper laugh and say , " if that be -PRON- desire , there should be a good opportunity for -PRON- here . " 
 " oh , be quiet , " say the innkeeper 's wife . " too many meddlesome people have already lose -PRON- life . -PRON- would be a pity and a shame if -PRON- beautiful eye would never again see the light of day . " 
 but the boy say , " i want to learn to shudder , however difficult -PRON- may be . that be why i leave home . " 
 -PRON- give the innkeeper no rest , until the latter tell -PRON- that there be a haunted castle not far away where a person could very easily learn how to shudder , if -PRON- would just keep watch there for three night . the king have promise that whoever would dare to do this could have -PRON- daughter in marriage , and -PRON- be the most beautiful maiden under the sun . further , in the castle there be great treasure , guard by evil spirit . these treasure would then be free , and would make a poor man rich enough . many have enter the castle , but no one have come out again . 
 the next morning the boy go to the king and say , " if -PRON- be allow , i will keep watch three night in the haunted castle . " 
 the king look at -PRON- , and because the boy please -PRON- , -PRON- say , " -PRON- may ask for three thing to take into the castle with -PRON- , but -PRON- must be thing that be not alive . " 
 to this the boy reply , " then i ask for a fire , a lathe , and a woodcarver 's bench with a knife . " 
 the king have all these thing carry into the castle for -PRON- during the day . when night be approach , the boy go inside and make -PRON- a bright fire in one of the room , place the woodcarver 's bench and knife beside -PRON- , and sit down at the lathe . 
 " oh , if only i could shudder ! " -PRON- say . " but i will not learn -PRON- here either . " 
 towards midnight -PRON- decide to stir up -PRON- fire . -PRON- be just blow into -PRON- when a cry suddenly come from one of the corner , " au , meow ! how cold -PRON- be ! " 
 " -PRON- fool , " -PRON- shout , " what be -PRON- cry about ? if -PRON- be cold , come and sit down by the fire and warm yourself . " 
 when -PRON- have say that , two large black cat come with a powerful leap and sit down on either side of -PRON- , look at -PRON- savagely with -PRON- fiery eye . 
 a little while later , after warm -PRON- , -PRON- say , " comrade , shall -PRON- play a game of card ? " 
 " why not ? " -PRON- reply , " but first show -PRON- -PRON- paw . " 
 so -PRON- stretch out -PRON- claw . 
 " oh , " -PRON- say , " what long nail -PRON- have . wait . first i will have to trim -PRON- for -PRON- . " 
 with that -PRON- seize -PRON- by -PRON- neck , put -PRON- on the woodcarver 's bench , and tighten -PRON- into the vice by -PRON- foot . " i have be look at -PRON- finger , " -PRON- say , " and -PRON- desire to play card have disappear , " and -PRON- strike -PRON- dead and throw -PRON- out into the water . 
 after -PRON- have put these two to rest , -PRON- be about to sit down again by -PRON- fire , when from every side and every corner there come black cat and black dog on red - hot chain . more and more of -PRON- appear until -PRON- could no longer move . -PRON- shout horribly , then jump into -PRON- fire and pull -PRON- apart , try to put -PRON- out . 
 -PRON- quietly watch -PRON- for a little while , but finally -PRON- be too much for -PRON- , and -PRON- seize -PRON- carving - knife , and cry , " away with -PRON- , -PRON- villain ! " and hack away at -PRON- . some of -PRON- run away , the other -PRON- kill , and throw out into the pond . when -PRON- come back -PRON- blow into the ember of -PRON- fire until -PRON- flame up again , and warm -PRON- . 
 as -PRON- thus sit there , -PRON- eye would no longer stay open , and -PRON- want to fall asleep . look around , -PRON- see a large bed in the corner . " that be just what i want , " -PRON- say , and lie down in -PRON- . however , as -PRON- be about to shut -PRON- eye , the bed begin to move by -PRON- , go throughout the whole castle . 
 " good , " -PRON- say , " but let 's go faster . " 
 then the bed roll on as if six horse be harness to -PRON- , over threshold and stairway , up and down . but then suddenly , hop , hop , -PRON- tip upside down and lie on -PRON- like a mountain . but -PRON- throw the cover and pillow into the air , climb out , and say , " now anyone who want to may drive . " then -PRON- lie down by -PRON- fire , and sleep until -PRON- be day . 
 in the morning the king come , and when -PRON- see -PRON- lie there on the ground , -PRON- think that the ghost have kill -PRON- and that -PRON- be dead . then say -PRON- , " -PRON- be indeed a pity to lose such a handsome person . " 
 the boy hear this , get up , and say , " -PRON- hasn't come to that yet . " 
 the king be astonish , but glad , and ask how -PRON- have fare . 
 " very well , " -PRON- reply . " one night be past . the two other will pass as well . " 
 when -PRON- return to the innkeeper , the latter look astonished and say , " i do not think that -PRON- would see -PRON- alive again . do -PRON- learn how to shudder ? " 
 " no , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- be all in vain . if someone could only tell -PRON- how . " 
 the second night -PRON- again go up to the old castle , sit down by the fire , and begin -PRON- old song once more , " if only i could shudder ! " 
 as midnight be approach -PRON- hear a noise and commotion . at first -PRON- be soft , but then louder and louder . then -PRON- be a little quiet , and finally , with a loud scream , half of a man come down the chimney and fall in front of -PRON- . 
 " hey ! " -PRON- shout . " another half belong here . this be too little . " 
 then the noise begin again . with roar and howl the other half fall down as well . 
 " wait , " -PRON- say . " let -PRON- blow on the fire and make -PRON- burn a little warm for -PRON- . " 
 when -PRON- have do that and look around again . the two piece have come together , and a hideous man be sit in -PRON- place . 
 " that be not part of the wager , " say the boy . " that bench be -PRON- . " 
 the man want to force -PRON- aside , but the boy would not let -PRON- , instead push -PRON- away with force , and then sit down again in -PRON- own place . 
 then still more man fall down , one after the other . -PRON- bring nine bone from dead man and two skull , then set -PRON- up and bowl with -PRON- . 
 the boy want to play too and say , " listen , can i bowl with -PRON- ? " 
 " yes , if -PRON- have money . " 
 " money enough , " -PRON- answer , " but -PRON- bowling ball be not quite round . " then -PRON- take the skull , put -PRON- in the lathe and turn -PRON- round . 
 " there , now -PRON- will roll good , " -PRON- say . " hey ! this will be fun ! " 
 -PRON- play with -PRON- and lose some of -PRON- money , but when the clock strike twelve , everything disappear before -PRON- eye . -PRON- lie down and peacefully fall asleep . 
 the next morning the king come to learn what have happen . " how do -PRON- do this time ? " -PRON- ask . 
 " i go bowling , " -PRON- answer , " and lose a few penny . " 
 " do -PRON- shudder ? " 
 " how ? " -PRON- say . " i have great fun , but if i only know how to shudder . " 
 on the third night -PRON- sit down again on -PRON- bench and say quite sadly , " if only i could shudder ! " 
 when -PRON- be late , six large man come in carry a coffin . at this -PRON- say , " aha , for certain that be -PRON- little cousin , who die a few day ago . " then -PRON- motion with -PRON- finger and cry out , " come , little cousin , come . " 
 -PRON- put the coffin on the ground . -PRON- go up to -PRON- and take the lid off . a dead man lie inside . -PRON- feel -PRON- face , and -PRON- be cold as ice . 
 " wait , " -PRON- say , " i will warm -PRON- up a little . " -PRON- go to the fire and warm -PRON- own hand , then lay -PRON- on the dead man 's face , but the dead man remain cold . then -PRON- take -PRON- out , sit down by the fire , and lay -PRON- on -PRON- lap , rub the dead man 's arm to get the blood circulate again . 
 when that do not help either , -PRON- think to -PRON- , " when two people lie in bed together , -PRON- keep each other warm . " so -PRON- carry the dead man to the bed , put -PRON- under the cover , and lie down next to -PRON- . a little while later the dead man become warm too and begin to move . 
 the boy say , " see , little cousin , i get -PRON- warm , do not i ? " 
 but the dead man cry out , " i be go to strangle -PRON- . " 
 " what ? " -PRON- say . " be that -PRON- thank ? get back into -PRON- coffin ! " then -PRON- pick -PRON- up , throw -PRON- inside , and shut the lid . then the six man come and carry -PRON- away again . 
 " i can not shudder , " -PRON- say . " i will not learn -PRON- here as long as i live . " 
 then a man come in . -PRON- be large than all other , and look frightful . but -PRON- be old and have a long white beard . 
 " -PRON- wretch , " -PRON- shout , " -PRON- shall soon learn what -PRON- be to shudder , for -PRON- be about to die . " 
 " not so fast , " answer the boy . " if i be to die , i will have to be there . " 
 " -PRON- have get -PRON- , " say the monster . 
 " now , now , do not boast . i be just as strong as -PRON- be , and probably even strong . " 
 " -PRON- shall see , " say the old man . " if -PRON- be strong than i be , i shall let -PRON- go . come , let 's put -PRON- to the test . " 
 then the old man lead -PRON- through dark passageway to a blacksmith 's forge , take an ax , and with one blow drive one of the anvil into the ground . 
 " i can do good than that , " say the boy , and go to the other anvil . the old man stand nearby , want to look on . -PRON- white beard hang down . the boy seize the ax and split the anvil with one blow , wedge the old man 's beard in the crack . 
 " now i have -PRON- , " say the boy . " now -PRON- be -PRON- turn to die . " then -PRON- seize an iron bar and beat the old man until -PRON- moan and beg -PRON- to stop , promise that -PRON- would give -PRON- great rich . the boy pull out the ax and release -PRON- . the old man lead -PRON- back into the castle , and show -PRON- three chest full of gold in a cellar . 
 " of these , " -PRON- say , " one be for the poor , the second one be for the king , and the third one be yours . " 
 meanwhile -PRON- strike twelve , and the spirit disappear , leave the boy stand in the dark . " i can find -PRON- own way out , " -PRON- say . feel around , -PRON- find -PRON- way to the bedroom , and fall asleep by -PRON- fire . 
 the next morning the king come and say , " by now -PRON- must have learn how to shudder . " 
 " no , " -PRON- answer . " what be -PRON- ? -PRON- dead cousin be here , and a bearded man come and show -PRON- a large amount of money down below , but no one show -PRON- how to shudder . " 
 then the king say , " -PRON- have redeem the castle , and shall marry -PRON- daughter . " 
 " that be all very well , " say the boy , " but i still do not know how to shudder . " 
 then the gold be bring up , and the wedding celebrate , but however much the young king love -PRON- wife , and however happy -PRON- be , -PRON- still be always say , " if only i could shudder . if only i could shudder . " with time this make -PRON- angry . 
 -PRON- chambermaid say , " i can help . i know how -PRON- can learn to shudder . " 
 -PRON- go out to the brook that flow through the garden , and catch a whole bucketful of minnow . that night when the young king be asleep , -PRON- wife be to pull the cover off -PRON- and pour the bucketful of cold water and minnow onto -PRON- , so that the little fish would wriggle all over -PRON- . 
 when -PRON- do this , -PRON- wake up cry out , " oh , what be make -PRON- shudder ? what be make -PRON- shudder , dear wife ? yes , now i know how to shudder . " 

 the wolf and the seven young kid 

 the kid say , " mother dear , -PRON- will take care of -PRON- . -PRON- can go away without any worry . " 
 then the old one bleat , and go on -PRON- way with -PRON- mind at ease . 
 -PRON- be not long before someone knock at the door and call out , " open the door , child dear , -PRON- mother be here , and have bring something for each one of -PRON- . " 
 but the little kid know from the rough voice that -PRON- be the wolf . 
 " -PRON- will not open the door , " -PRON- cry out . " -PRON- be not -PRON- mother . -PRON- have a soft and gentle voice , but -PRON- voice be rough . -PRON- be the wolf . " 
 so the wolf go to a shopkeeper and buy -PRON- a large piece of chalk , which -PRON- eat , make -PRON- voice soft . then -PRON- come back and knock at the door , call out , " open the door , child dear . -PRON- mother be here and have bring something for each one of -PRON- . " 
 but the wolf lay one of -PRON- black paw inside the window . the child see -PRON- and cry out , " -PRON- will not open the door . -PRON- mother do not have a black foot like -PRON- . -PRON- be the wolf . " 
 so the wolf run to a baker and say , " i have sprain -PRON- foot . rub some dough on -PRON- for -PRON- . " after the baker have rub dough on -PRON- foot , the wolf run to the miller and say , " sprinkle some white flour on -PRON- foot for -PRON- . " 
 the miller think , " the wolf want to deceive someone , " and refuse to do -PRON- , so the wolf say , " if -PRON- will not do -PRON- , i will eat -PRON- up . " that frighten the miller , and -PRON- make -PRON- paw white for -PRON- . yes , that be the way people be . 
 now the villain go for a third time to the door , knock at -PRON- , and say , " open the door for -PRON- , child . -PRON- dear little mother have come home , and have bring every one of -PRON- something from the wood . " 
 the little kid cry out , " first show -PRON- -PRON- paw so -PRON- may know that -PRON- be -PRON- dear little mother . " 
 so -PRON- put -PRON- paw inside the window , and when -PRON- see that -PRON- be white , -PRON- believe that everything -PRON- say be true , and -PRON- open the door . but who come in ? -PRON- be the wolf . -PRON- be terrify and want to hide . one jump under the table , the second into the bed , the third into the stove , the fourth into the kitchen , the fifth into the cupboard , the sixth under the washbasin , and the seventh into the clock case . but the wolf find -PRON- all , and with no further ado -PRON- swallow -PRON- down -PRON- throat , one after the other . however , -PRON- do not find the young kid , the one who be in the clock case . 
 after satisfy -PRON- appetite -PRON- go outside and lie down under a tree in the green meadow and fall asleep . 
 soon afterward the old goat come home from the wood . oh , what a sight -PRON- see there . the door stand wide open . table , chair , and bench be tip over . the washbasin be in piece . the cover and pillow have be pull off the bed . -PRON- look for -PRON- child , but -PRON- be nowhere to be find . -PRON- call -PRON- by name , one after the other , but no one answer . when -PRON- at last come to the young , a soft voice cry out , " mother dear , i be hide in the clock case . -PRON- take -PRON- out , and -PRON- tell -PRON- that the wolf have come and have eat up all the other . -PRON- can just imagine how -PRON- cry for -PRON- poor child . 
 finally in -PRON- despair -PRON- go outside , and the young kid run with -PRON- . -PRON- come to the meadow , and there lie the wolf by the tree , snore so loudly that the branch shake . -PRON- look at -PRON- from all side and see that something be move and jiggle inside -PRON- full belly . 
 " good gracious , " -PRON- think . " be -PRON- possible that -PRON- poor child , whom -PRON- have swallow down for -PRON- supper , can still be alive ? " 
 the mother goat send the kid home and to fetch scissor , and a needle and thread , and then -PRON- cut open the monster 's paunch . -PRON- have scarcely make one cut , before a little kid stick -PRON- head out , and as -PRON- continue to cut , one after the other all six jump out , and -PRON- be all still alive . -PRON- be not even hurt , for in -PRON- greed the monster have swallow -PRON- down whole . how happy -PRON- be ! -PRON- hug -PRON- dear mother , and jump about like a tailor on -PRON- wedding day . 
 but the mother say , " go now and look for some big stone . -PRON- will fill the godless beast 's stomach with -PRON- while -PRON- be still asleep . " 
 the seven kid quickly bring the stone , and -PRON- put as many as many of -PRON- into -PRON- stomach as -PRON- would hold . then the mother hurriedly sew -PRON- up again . -PRON- be not aware of anything and never once stir . 
 the wolf finally awake and get up onto -PRON- leg . because the stone in -PRON- stomach make -PRON- very thirsty , -PRON- want to go to a well and get a drink . but when -PRON- begin to walk and to move about , the stone in -PRON- stomach knock against each other and rattle . 
 then -PRON- cry out : 
 what rumble and tumble , inside of -PRON- . i think -PRON- be kid , but -PRON- be stone that -PRON- be . 
 when -PRON- get to the well and lean over the water to drink , the heavy stone pull -PRON- in , and -PRON- drown miserably . 
 when the seven kid see what have happen , -PRON- run up and cry out , " the wolf be dead ! the wolf be dead ! " and with -PRON- mother -PRON- dance for joy around about the well . 

 faithful johanne 

 faithful johanne be -PRON- favorite servant , and be so call , because -PRON- have be so loyal to -PRON- for -PRON- whole life long . when -PRON- approach the bed the king say to -PRON- , " most faithful johanne , i feel that -PRON- end be near . -PRON- only concern be for -PRON- son . -PRON- be still young and may not always have the good judgment . i will not be able to close -PRON- eye in peace if -PRON- do not promise to teach -PRON- everything that -PRON- ought to know , and to be -PRON- foster father . " 
 faithful johanne answer , " i will not forsake -PRON- , and will serve -PRON- faithfully , even if -PRON- cost -PRON- -PRON- life . " 
 at this , the old king say , " then i will die in comfort and peace , " add , " after -PRON- death , show -PRON- the entire castle -- all the chamber , hall , and vault , and all the treasure which lie therein . but do not show -PRON- the last chamber in the long gallery , which contain the portrait of the princess of the golden roof . if -PRON- see that picture , -PRON- will fall violently in love with -PRON- , will fall down unconscious , and will put -PRON- at great risk for -PRON- sake . -PRON- must protect -PRON- from that . " 
 after faithful johanne have once more give -PRON- promise to the old king about this , the latter say no more , but lay -PRON- head on -PRON- pillow and die . 
 after the old king have be carry to -PRON- grave , faithful johanne tell the young king all that -PRON- have promise -PRON- father on -PRON- deathbed , and say , " i will surely keep -PRON- promise , and will be loyal to -PRON- as i have be loyal to -PRON- , even if -PRON- should cost -PRON- -PRON- life . " 
 when the mourning be over , faithful johanne say to the young king , " -PRON- be now time for -PRON- to see -PRON- inheritance . i will show -PRON- -PRON- father 's castle . " then -PRON- take -PRON- everywhere , up and down , and let -PRON- see all the rich and the magnificent chamber . but there be one chamber which -PRON- do not open , the one that contain the dangerous portrait . now the portrait be so place that when the door be open one look straight at -PRON- . -PRON- be so masterfully paint that -PRON- seem to live and breathe and to be the most charming beautiful thing in the whole world . 
 the young king notice that faithful johanne always walk past this one door , and say , " why do -PRON- never open this one for -PRON- ? " 
 -PRON- reply , " there be something in there that would frighten -PRON- . " 
 the king answer " i have see the entire castle , and i want to know what be in this room as well . " and -PRON- be about to break open the door by force . 
 faithful johanne hold -PRON- back , say , " i promise -PRON- father before -PRON- death that -PRON- should not see inside this chamber . -PRON- could bring great misfortune on -PRON- and on -PRON- . " 
 " oh , no ! " reply the young king . " if i do not go in , -PRON- will be -PRON- certain downfall . i shall have no rest day or night until i have see inside with -PRON- own eye . i shall not leave here until -PRON- have unlock the door . " 
 faithful johanne see that there be no other way . with a heavy heart and many sigh , -PRON- take the key from the large ring . after open the door , -PRON- go in first , think that -PRON- could block king 's view of the portrait , that the king would not see -PRON- in front of -PRON- . but what good do -PRON- do ? the king stand on tiptoe and see the portrait over faithful johanne 's shoulder . after see the girl 's portrait , which be so magnificent and glisten with gold and precious stone , -PRON- fall unconscious to the ground . 
 faithful johanne pick -PRON- up , carry -PRON- to -PRON- bed , and sorrowfully think , " misfortune have befall -PRON- , dear lord . how will -PRON- end ? " then -PRON- strengthen the king with wine , until -PRON- regain consciousness . 
 the king 's first word be , " oh , whose portrait be that beautiful picture ? " 
 " that be the princess of the golden roof , " answer faithful johanne . 
 the king continue , " -PRON- love for -PRON- be so great , that if all the leaf on all the tree be tongue , -PRON- would not be able to express -PRON- . i will risk -PRON- life to win -PRON- . -PRON- be -PRON- most faithful johanne . -PRON- must help -PRON- . " 
 the faithful servant think to -PRON- for a long time how to approach the matter , for -PRON- be difficult even to come into view of the king 's daughter . finally -PRON- think of a way , and say to the king , " everything which -PRON- have about -PRON- be of gold -- table , chair , dish , cup , bowl , and household implement . among -PRON- treasure be five ton of gold . have the royal goldsmith fashion one ton into all manner of vessel and utensil , into all kind of bird , wild beast , and strange animal . -PRON- will like these thing , and -PRON- will go there with -PRON- and to try -PRON- luck . " 
 the king summon all the goldsmith , and -PRON- have to work night and day until at last the most splendid thing be prepare . when everything have be load on board a ship , faithful johanne disguise -PRON- as a merchant , and the king have to do the same thing in order to make -PRON- quite unrecognizable . then -PRON- sail across the sea , and sail on until -PRON- come to the city where the princess of the golden roof live . 
 faithful johanne have the king stay behind on the ship and wait for -PRON- . " perhaps i shall bring the princess with -PRON- , " -PRON- say . " therefore see that everything be in order . have the golden vessel set out and the whole ship decorate . " then -PRON- put all kind of golden thing into -PRON- apron , go on shore and walk straight to the royal castle . when -PRON- enter the courtyard of the castle , a beautiful girl be stand there by the well with two golden bucket in -PRON- hand , drawing water with -PRON- . -PRON- be just turn around to carry away the sparkling water when -PRON- see the stranger and ask who -PRON- be . 
 -PRON- answer , " i be a merchant , " open -PRON- apron , and let -PRON- look in . 
 " oh , what beautiful golden thing , " -PRON- cry , put -PRON- bucket down and look at the golden ware one after the other . then the girl say , " the princess must see these thing . -PRON- take such great pleasure in golden thing , that -PRON- will buy all -PRON- have . " take -PRON- by the hand , -PRON- lead -PRON- upstairs , for -PRON- be the princess 's chambermaid . 
 when the princess see the ware , -PRON- be quite delighted and say , " -PRON- be so beautifully make that i will buy -PRON- all from -PRON- . " 
 but faithful johanne say , " i be only the servant of a rich merchant . the thing i have here be not to be compare with those -PRON- master have in -PRON- ship . -PRON- be the most beautiful and valuable thing that have ever be make in gold . " when -PRON- want to have everything bring up to -PRON- , -PRON- say , " there be so much that -PRON- would take a great many day to do that , and so many room would be require to exhibit -PRON- , that -PRON- house be not big enough . " 
 this make -PRON- all the more curious and desirous , so at last -PRON- say , " take -PRON- to the ship . i will go there -PRON- and see -PRON- master 's treasure . " 
 faithful johanne happily lead -PRON- to the ship , and when the king behold -PRON- , -PRON- see that -PRON- be even more beautiful than the portrait , and -PRON- think that -PRON- heart would surely break . then -PRON- board the ship , and the king lead -PRON- inside . but faithful johanne remain with the helmsman and order the ship to be push off , say , " set all the sail and fly like a bird in the air . " 
 inside , the king show -PRON- the golden vessel , every one of -PRON- , and also the wild beast and strange animal . many hour go by while -PRON- be look at everything , and in -PRON- delight -PRON- do not notice that the ship be sail away . after -PRON- have look at the last item , -PRON- thank the merchant and want to go home , but when -PRON- come to the side of the ship , -PRON- see that -PRON- be on the high sea far from land , and speed onward at full sail . 
 " oh ! " -PRON- cry in alarm " i 've be betray . -PRON- have be kidnap and have fall into the power of a merchant . i would rather die ! " 
 take -PRON- by the hand , the king say , " i be not a merchant . i be a king , and of no low birth than -PRON- be . if i have trick -PRON- into come with -PRON- , -PRON- be only because of -PRON- great love for -PRON- . the first time i see -PRON- portrait , i fall to the ground unconscious . " 
 when the princess of the golden roof be comfort when -PRON- hear this . -PRON- heart yield to -PRON- , and -PRON- willingly consent to marry -PRON- . 
 now -PRON- so happen that while -PRON- be sail onward on the high sea , faithful johanne , who be sit at the front of the ship make music , see three raven fly through the air towards -PRON- . -PRON- stop play and listen to what -PRON- be say to each other , for -PRON- could understand -PRON- . 
 one cry " oh , -PRON- be carry home the princess of the golden roof . " 
 " yes , " reply the second , " but -PRON- do not have -PRON- yet . " 
 the third one say , " yes , -PRON- have -PRON- . -PRON- be sit beside -PRON- in the ship . " 
 then the first one begin again , cry , " what good will that do -PRON- ? when -PRON- reach land a chestnut horse will leap forward to meet -PRON- , and the prince will want to mount -PRON- , but if -PRON- do that , -PRON- will leap up into the air with -PRON- , and -PRON- will never see -PRON- bride again . " 
 the second one speak , " be there no escape ? " 
 " oh , yes , if someone else quickly mount -PRON- , take the gun from -PRON- saddlebag , and shoot the horse dead , then young king will be rescue . but who know that ? and if anyone do know -PRON- , and tell -PRON- to the king , -PRON- will be turn to stone from -PRON- toe to -PRON- knee . " 
 then the second raven say , " i know more than that . even if the horse be kill , still the young king will not keep -PRON- bride . when -PRON- enter the castle together , a ready - make wedding shirt will be lie there on a platter . -PRON- will appear to be weave of gold and silver , but -PRON- be nothing but sulfur and pitch . if -PRON- put -PRON- on , -PRON- will burn -PRON- to the very marrow and bone . " 
 the third one speak , " be there no escape at all ? " 
 " oh , yes , " reply the second raven . " if anyone with glove on seize the garment and throw -PRON- into the fire and burn -PRON- up , the young king will be save . but what good will that do ? if anyone know -PRON- and tell -PRON- to the king , half -PRON- body will become stone , from -PRON- knee to -PRON- heart . " 
 then the third raven say , " i know still more . even if the wedding shirt be burn up , still the young king will not have -PRON- bride . after the wedding , when the dancing begin and the young queen be dance , -PRON- will suddenly turn pale and fall down as if dead . if someone do not lift -PRON- up and draw three drop of blood from -PRON- right breast and spit -PRON- out again , -PRON- will die . but if anyone who know that reveal -PRON- , -PRON- entire body will turn to stone , from the crown of -PRON- head to the sol of -PRON- foot . " 
 after the raven have thus speak -PRON- fly away . faithful johanne have understand everything well . from that time forth -PRON- become quiet and sad , for if -PRON- conceal what -PRON- have hear from -PRON- master , -PRON- would bring misfortune to the king , but if -PRON- reveal -PRON- to -PRON- , then -PRON- -PRON- would have to sacrifice -PRON- life . 
 finally -PRON- say to -PRON- , " i will save -PRON- master , even if -PRON- bring destruction on -PRON- . " 
 when -PRON- land , what the raven foretell do indeed happen , and a magnificent chestnut horse spring forward . 
 " excellent ! " say the king . " -PRON- shall carry -PRON- to -PRON- castle . " 
 -PRON- be about to mount -PRON- when faithful johanne push in front of -PRON- , quickly jump onto the horse , draw the gun from -PRON- saddlebag , and shoot the horse . 
 the king 's other servant , who be not very fond of faithful johanne , shout , " how shameful to kill the beautiful animal that be to have carry the king to -PRON- castle . " 
 but the king say , " hold -PRON- peace and leave -PRON- alone . -PRON- be -PRON- most faithful johanne . who know what good may come of this ? " 
 -PRON- enter the castle , and in the hall there stand a platter on which lie the wedding shirt that appear to be make of gold and silver . the young king go towards -PRON- and be about to take hold of -PRON- , but faithful johanne push -PRON- away , seize -PRON- with glove , carry -PRON- quickly to the fire , and burn -PRON- up . 
 the other servant begin to murmur again , say , " look , now -PRON- be even burn up the king 's wedding shirt . " 
 but the young king say , " who know what good -PRON- may have do ? leave -PRON- alone . -PRON- be -PRON- most faithful johanne . " 
 and now the wedding take place . the dance begin , with the bride also take part . faithful johanne be watchful and look into -PRON- face . suddenly -PRON- turn pale and fall to the ground as if -PRON- be dead . -PRON- run quickly to -PRON- , pick -PRON- up and carry -PRON- into a chamber . -PRON- lay -PRON- down , then kneel and suck three drop of blood from -PRON- right breast , and spat -PRON- out . immediately -PRON- breathe again and regain consciousness . the young king see what have happen , and not know why faithful johanne have do -PRON- , grow angry and shout , " throw -PRON- into prison . " 
 the next morning faithful johanne be condemn and lead to the gallow . stand high on the platform and about to be execute , -PRON- say , " everyone who be condemn to die be permit before -PRON- end to say one last thing . may i too have this right ? " 
 " yes , " answer the king . " -PRON- be grant this right . " 
 faithful johanne say , " i have be unjustly condemn , and have always be loyal to -PRON- , and -PRON- relate how -PRON- have hear the conversation of the raven at sea , and how -PRON- have have to do all these thing in order to save -PRON- master . 
 then the king cry , " oh , -PRON- most faithful johanne , pardon ! pardon ! bring -PRON- down . " 
 but as faithful johanne speak the last word , -PRON- fall down lifeless and turn to stone . 
 this cause the king and the queen great grief , and the king say , " oh , i have reward -PRON- very badly for -PRON- great loyalty . " -PRON- then order the stone figure to be take up and place in -PRON- bedroom next to -PRON- bed . every time that -PRON- look at -PRON- -PRON- weep , say , " oh , if only i could bring -PRON- back to life again , -PRON- most faithful johanne . " 
 some time pass and the queen bear twin , two son who grow fast and be -PRON- delight . once when the queen be at church and the two child be sit beside -PRON- father and playing , -PRON- again look sadly at the stone statue and say , " oh , if only i could bring -PRON- back to life again , -PRON- most faithful johanne . " 
 then the stone begin to speak and say , " -PRON- can bring -PRON- back to life again if -PRON- will in return give up what be dear to -PRON- . " 
 the king cry , " for -PRON- i will give up everything i have in the world . " 
 the stone continue , " if -PRON- will cut off the head of -PRON- two child with -PRON- own hand , then sprinkle -PRON- blood on -PRON- , i shall be restore to life . " 
 the king be horrified when -PRON- hear that -PRON- would have to kill -PRON- own dear child , but -PRON- think of faithful johanne 's great loyalty , and how -PRON- have die for -PRON- , then draw -PRON- sword , and with -PRON- own hand cut off the child 's head . and when -PRON- have smear the stone with -PRON- blood , -PRON- return to life , and faithful johanne stand before -PRON- , again healthy and well . 
 -PRON- say to the king , " -PRON- loyalty shall not go unrewarded , " then take the child 's head , -PRON- put -PRON- on again , then rub the wound with -PRON- blood , at which -PRON- become immediately whole again , and jump about and go on play as if nothing have happen . 
 the king be overjoy . when -PRON- see the queen come -PRON- hide faithful johanne and the two child in a large chest . when -PRON- enter , -PRON- say to -PRON- , " have -PRON- be pray in the church ? " 
 " yes , -PRON- answer , " but i have constantly be think about faithful johanne and what misfortune have befall -PRON- because of -PRON- . " 
 then -PRON- say , " dear wife , -PRON- can give -PRON- -PRON- life again , but -PRON- will cost -PRON- -PRON- two little son . -PRON- will have to sacrifice -PRON- . " 
 the queen turn pale , and -PRON- heart fill with terror , but -PRON- say , " -PRON- owe -PRON- to -PRON- for -PRON- great loyalty . " 
 the king rejoice to hear that -PRON- agree with -PRON- , then -PRON- open up the chest and bring forth faithful johanne and the child , say , " god be praise ! faithful johanne have be save , and -PRON- have -PRON- little son again as well . " -PRON- tell -PRON- how everything have happen . then -PRON- live happily together until -PRON- die . 


 the good bargain 

 " well , " -PRON- say -PRON- to -PRON- , " -PRON- be talk nonsense . -PRON- be seven   that i be pay , not eight . " 
 when -PRON- reach the water , -PRON- shout to -PRON- , " -PRON- be stupid   creature . do not -PRON- know any good than that ? -PRON- be seven taler , not   eight . " 
 the frog , however , keep up with -PRON- " ak , ak , ak , ak . " 
 " now then , if -PRON- will not believe -PRON- , i can count -PRON- out for -PRON- . " then   take -PRON- money out of -PRON- pocket , -PRON- count out the seven taler ,   twenty - four groschen in each one . 
 however , the frog pay no attention to -PRON- counting , and again cry   out , " ak , ak , ak , ak . " 
 " aha ! " shout the peasant , quite angry . " if -PRON- think that -PRON- know   good than i do , then count -PRON- yourself , " and -PRON- throw all the money at   -PRON- into the water . -PRON- stand still , want to stay there until -PRON- be   finish and have return -PRON- money to -PRON- , but the frog do not budge   from -PRON- opinion , and continue to cry out , " ak , ak , ak , ak . " and   furthermore , -PRON- do not throw the money back to -PRON- . 
 -PRON- wait a long time , until evening finally come , and -PRON- have to go   home . then -PRON- curse the frog , shout at -PRON- , " -PRON- water - splasher ,   -PRON- thick - head , -PRON- goggle - eye , -PRON- have big mouth and can shout until   a person 's ear hurt , but -PRON- can not count seven taler . do -PRON- think that   i want to stand here until -PRON- be finish ? " 
 then -PRON- walk away , with the frog still cry out after -PRON- , " ak ,   ak , ak , ak . " -PRON- arrive at home in a sour mood . 
 some time later -PRON- buy -PRON- another cow , which -PRON- slaughter . -PRON-   calculate that if -PRON- sell the meat for a good price , -PRON- could earn as   much as the two cow have be worth together , and have the hide as well . 
 -PRON- go to town with the meat . an entire pack of dog have gather   together just outside the town gate , with a large greyhound at the head of   the pack . the greyhound jump at the meat , sniff and bark , " bow ,   wow , bow , wow . " 
 when the dog would not stop , the peasant say to -PRON- , " yes , i   understand that -PRON- be say , " bow , wow , " because -PRON- want some of the   meat , but i would be in a fine state if i give -PRON- to -PRON- . " 
 the dog 's only answer be , " bow , wow . " 
 " will -PRON- not eat -PRON- all up , and will -PRON- be responsible for -PRON-   companion ? " 
 " bow , wow , " say the dog . 
 " well , if -PRON- insist on -PRON- , i will leave -PRON- with -PRON- . i know -PRON- well ,   and i know who -PRON- master be . but i be tell -PRON- , i must have -PRON- money   in three day , or -PRON- will be sorry . -PRON- can just bring -PRON- out to -PRON- . " 
 with this -PRON- unload the meat and turn back toward home . the dog   jump on the meat , bark loudly , " bow , wow . " 
 the peasant hear -PRON- from afar and say to -PRON- , " listen , -PRON- all   want some , but the big dog will be responsible for -PRON- . " 
 when three day have pass , the peasant think , " tonight -PRON- will have   the money in -PRON- pocket , " and be quite satisfied . but no one come to pay   -PRON- . 
 " no one be to be trust nowadays , " -PRON- say . 
 finally -PRON- lose -PRON- patience and go to town and to the butcher , from   whom -PRON- demand -PRON- money . the butcher think -PRON- be a joke , but the   peasant say , " all joke aside , i want -PRON- money . do not the big dog   bring home to -PRON- an entire slaughter cow three day ago ? " 
 then the butcher grow angry , pick up a broomstick and chase -PRON- out . 
 " wait , " say the peasant . " there be still some justice in the world , "   and -PRON- go to the royal palace and ask for a hearing . -PRON- be lead before   the king , who be sit there with -PRON- daughter . the king ask -PRON- what   injury -PRON- have suffer . 
 " alas , " -PRON- say , " the frog and the dog steal -PRON- belonging from -PRON- ,   and the butcher pay -PRON- for -PRON- loss with a stick . " then -PRON- tell -PRON-   everything that have happen . 
 at this the king 's daughter begin to laugh out loud , and the king say   to -PRON- , " i can not make that right for -PRON- , but instead -PRON- shall have -PRON-   daughter for -PRON- wife . -PRON- have never laugh before in -PRON- whole life ,   until just now at -PRON- , and i have promise -PRON- to the man who could make   -PRON- laugh . -PRON- can thank god for -PRON- good fortune . " 
 " oh , " answer the peasant , " i do not want -PRON- . i have one wife at home   already , and -PRON- be too much for -PRON- . whenever i go home , -PRON- be just as if   i have a wife stand in every corner . " 
 then the king grow angry , and say , " -PRON- be a lout . " 
 " alas , -PRON- majesty , " answer the peasant , " what can -PRON- expect from   an ox , but beef ? " 
 " wait , " reply the king . " -PRON- shall have another reward . get out of   here for now , but come back in three day , and then five hundred shall be   count out for -PRON- in full . " 
 when the peasant pass through the gate , the sentry say , " -PRON- make   the king 's daughter laugh , so -PRON- must have receive something very good . " 
 " yes , that be right , " answer the peasant . " five hundred be to be   count out to -PRON- . " 
 " listen , " say the soldier . " give -PRON- some of -PRON- . how can -PRON- spend all   that money ? " 
 " because -PRON- be -PRON- , " say the peasant , " -PRON- shall have two hundred . in   three day report to the king , and have -PRON- count out for -PRON- . " 
 a jew , who have be stand nearby and have overhear the conversation ,   run after the peasant , take hold of -PRON- coat , and say , " miracle of god ,   what a child of fortune -PRON- be ! i will change -PRON- for -PRON- . i will change   -PRON- for -PRON- into small coin . what do -PRON- want with hard taler ? " 
 " jew , " say the peasant , " -PRON- can have three hundred . give -PRON- to -PRON-   right now in coin . three day from now -PRON- will be pay for -PRON- by the   king . " 
 the jew be delighted with -PRON- small profit , and bring the sum in bad   groschen , three of which be worth two good one . after three day have   pass , in keep with the king 's order , the peasant go before the   king . 
 " pull off -PRON- coat , " say the king " -PRON- shall have -PRON- five hundred . " 
 " alas , " say the peasant , " -PRON- no longer belong to -PRON- . i give two   hundred of -PRON- to the sentry , and the jew have change three hundred for   -PRON- , so rightfully nothing more belong to -PRON- . " 
 in the meantime the soldier and the jew enter and demand what -PRON-   have receive from the peasant , and -PRON- receive the blow carefully   count out . 
 the soldier bear -PRON- patiently , for -PRON- already know how -PRON- taste , but   the jew cry out pitifully , " oh my , oh my , be these the hard   taler ? " 
 the king have to laugh at the peasant , and when -PRON- anger have subside ,   -PRON- say , " because -PRON- lose -PRON- reward even before -PRON- receive -PRON- , i will   replace -PRON- for -PRON- . go into -PRON- treasure chamber and take as much money for   -PRON- as -PRON- want . " 
 the peasant do not need to be tell twice , and -PRON- stuff as much as   would fit into -PRON- big pocket . after that -PRON- go to an inn and count   out -PRON- money . 
 the jew have creep after -PRON- and hear -PRON- mutter to -PRON- , " that   rascal of a king have cheat -PRON- after all . if -PRON- -PRON- have give -PRON- the   money , then i would know how much i have . now how can i know if what i have   the luck to put into -PRON- pocket be right ? " 
 " god forbid , " say the jew to -PRON- , " -PRON- be speak disrespectfully   of -PRON- majesty . i will run and report -PRON- , and then i shall get a reward ,   and furthermore -PRON- will be punish . " 
 when the king hear what the peasant have say -PRON- fall into a rage , and   order the jew to go and bring the offender to -PRON- . 
 the jew run to the peasant and say , " -PRON- be to go to -PRON- majesty the   king at once , and just as -PRON- be . " 
 " i know better than that what be right , " answer the peasant . " first   let -PRON- have a new coat make for -PRON- . do -PRON- think that a man with so   much money in -PRON- pocket should go before the king in this tattered old   coat ? " 
 the jew , see that the peasant could not be move without another   coat , and fear that if the king 's anger cool , -PRON- -PRON- would lose   -PRON- reward , and the peasant -PRON- punishment , say , " out of pure friendship   i will lend -PRON- a handsome coat for a little while . what people will not   do for love ! " 
 the peasant be satisfied with this , put on the jew 's coat , and go   off with -PRON- . 
 the king confront the peasant with the evil thing the jew have   accuse -PRON- of say . 
 " oh , " say the peasant , " what a jew say be always a lie . no true word   ever come out of -PRON- mouth . that rascal there be even capable of claim   that i have -PRON- coat on . " 
 " what be -PRON- say ? " shout the jew . " be that coat not -PRON- ? do i   not lend -PRON- to -PRON- out of pure friendship , so that -PRON- could appear before   -PRON- majesty the king ? " 
 when the king hear this , -PRON- say , " for sure the jew have deceive one   of -PRON- , either -PRON- or the peasant . " and once again -PRON- have the jew pay   out in hard taler . 
 the peasant , however , go home wear the good coat and with the good   money in -PRON- pocket , say to -PRON- , " this time i make -PRON- . " 

 the strange musician 

 then -PRON- take -PRON- fiddle from -PRON- back , and play a tune that sound   through the tree . 
 before long a wolf come trot through the thicket toward -PRON- . 
 " ah , a wolf be come . i have no desire for -PRON- , " say the musician ,   but the wolf come nearer and say to -PRON- , " ah , dear musician , -PRON- play   very well . i too would like to learn to play . " 
 " -PRON- can learn quickly , " answer the musician . " -PRON- will only have to   do what i tell -PRON- . " 
 " oh , musician , " say the wolf , " i will obey -PRON- like a pupil obey -PRON-   teacher . " 
 the musician tell -PRON- to come along with -PRON- , and when -PRON- have walk   some distance together , -PRON- come to an old oak tree . -PRON- be hollow inside   and split up the middle . 
 " look , " say the musician , " if -PRON- want learn to play the fiddle , put   -PRON- forepaws into this crack . " 
 the wolf obey , and the musician quickly pick up a stone , and with   one blow wedge -PRON- two paw so firmly that -PRON- have to stay lie there   like a prisoner . 
 " wait here until i return , " say the musician , and go on -PRON- way . 
 after a while -PRON- again say to -PRON- , " -PRON- be bore here in the   wood . i will get -PRON- another companion . " 
 -PRON- take -PRON- fiddle and again play into the wood . before long a fox   come creep through the tree toward -PRON- . 
 " ah , a fox be come , " say the musician . " i have no desire for -PRON- . " 
 the fox come up to -PRON- and say , " oh , dear musician , -PRON- play very   well . i too would like to learn to play . " 
 " -PRON- can learn quickly , " say the musician . " -PRON- will only have to do   what i tell -PRON- . " 
 " oh , musician , " answer the fox , " i will obey -PRON- like a pupil obey   -PRON- teacher . " 
 " follow -PRON- , " say the musician , and when -PRON- have go some distance   together , -PRON- come to a footpath with tall sapling on both side . there   the musician stand still , and from one side -PRON- bend a young hazelnut tree   down to the ground and put -PRON- foot on the end of -PRON- . then -PRON- bend down   another young tree from the other side , and say , " now little fox , if -PRON-   want to learn something , give -PRON- -PRON- left front paw . " 
 the fox obey , and the musician tie -PRON- paw to the left stem . " little   fox , " -PRON- say , " now give -PRON- -PRON- right paw . " 
 -PRON- tie this one to the right stem . after make sure that the knot in   the cord be tight enough , -PRON- let go . the tree spring upright and jerk   the little fox upward , leave -PRON- hang there struggle in the air . 
 " wait here until i return , " say the musician , and go on -PRON- way . 
 once again -PRON- say to -PRON- , " -PRON- be bore here in the wood . i will   get -PRON- another companion . so -PRON- take -PRON- fiddle , and music sound   through the wood . then a little hare come jump toward -PRON- . 
 " ah , a hare be come , " say the musician . " i do not want -PRON- . " 
 " oh , dear musician , " say the hare , " -PRON- play very well . i too would   like to learn to play . " 
 " -PRON- can learn quickly , " say the musician . " -PRON- will only have to do   what i tell -PRON- . " 
 " oh , musician , " reply the little hare , " i will obey -PRON- like a pupil   obey -PRON- teacher . " 
 when -PRON- have go some distance together , -PRON- come to an aspen tree   in a clearing in the wood . the musician tie a long string around the   little hare 's neck , then tie the other end of the string to the tree . 
 " now quickly , little hare , run twenty time around the tree , " shout   the musician , and the little hare obey . when -PRON- have run around twenty   time , -PRON- have wind the string twenty time around the trunk of the tree ,   and the little hare be catch . the more the hare tug and pull , the   more the string cut into -PRON- tender neck . 
 " wait here until i return , " say the musician , and go on -PRON- way . 
 the wolf , in the meantime , have push and pull and bite at the   stone , and have work so long that -PRON- free -PRON- foot from the crack . full   of anger and rage -PRON- rush after the musician , want to tear -PRON- to   piece . 
 when the fox see -PRON- run by , -PRON- begin to wail , cry out with all   -PRON- might , " brother wolf , come help -PRON- . the musician have trick -PRON- . " 
 the wolf pull down the tree , bit the cord in two , and free the fox ,   who go with -PRON- to take revenge on the musician . -PRON- find the tie - up   hare , whom -PRON- rescue as well , then all together -PRON- set forth to find   -PRON- enemy . 
 the musician have play -PRON- fiddle once again as -PRON- go on -PRON- way ,   and this time -PRON- have be more fortunate . the sound reach the ear of a   poor woodcutter , who instantly , whether -PRON- want to or not , stop   work and , with -PRON- ax under -PRON- arm , come toward the musician to listen   to the music . 
 " at last the right companion be come , " say the musician , " for i be   seek a human being , not wild animal . " and -PRON- begin to play so   beautifully and delightfully that the poor man stand there enraptured , -PRON-   heart fill with pleasure . 
 while -PRON- be thus stand there , the wolf , the fox , and the hare   approach . -PRON- see well that -PRON- have evil intention , so -PRON- raise -PRON-   shin axe and place -PRON- before the musician , as if to say , " anyone   who want to harm -PRON- beware , for -PRON- will have to deal with -PRON- . " 
 then the beast take fright and run back into the wood . the musician ,   however , play one more tune for the man to thank -PRON- , and then go on   -PRON- way . 

 the twelve brother 

 indeed , -PRON- have twelve coffin make . -PRON- be fill with wood shaving   and each be fit with a coffin pillow . -PRON- have -PRON- put in a locked   room , and give the key to the queen , order -PRON- to tell no one about   -PRON- . 
 the mother sit and mourn the entire day , until the young son --   who be always with -PRON- , and who be name benjamin after the bible --   say to -PRON- , " dear mother , why be -PRON- so sad ? " 
 " dear child , " -PRON- answer , " i can not tell -PRON- . " 
 however , -PRON- would not leave -PRON- in peace , until -PRON- unlock the room   and show -PRON- the coffin , already fill with wood shaving . 
 then -PRON- say , " -PRON- dear benjamin , -PRON- father have these coffin make   for -PRON- and -PRON- eleven brother . if i br a girl into the world , -PRON-   be all to be kill and bury in -PRON- . " 
 as -PRON- speak and cry , -PRON- son comfort -PRON- , say , " do n't cry , dear   mother . -PRON- will take care of -PRON- and run away . " 
 then -PRON- say , " go out into the wood with -PRON- eleven brother . one of   -PRON- should climb the high tree that -PRON- can find . keep watch there and   look toward the castle tower . if i give birth to a little son , i will   raise a white flag . if i give birth to a little daughter , i will raise a   red flag , and then -PRON- should escape as fast as -PRON- can , and may god   protect -PRON- . i will get up every night and pray for -PRON- , in the winter   that -PRON- may warm yourself near a fire , and in the summer that -PRON- may   not suffer from the heat . " 
 after -PRON- have bless -PRON- child , -PRON- go out into the wood . one   after the other of -PRON- keep watch , sit atop the high oak tree and   look toward the tower . after eleven day have pass , and -PRON- be   benjamin 's turn , -PRON- see that a flag have be raise . -PRON- be not the white   one , but instead the red blood - flag , decree that -PRON- all be to die . 
 when the boy hear this -PRON- become angry and cry out , " be -PRON- to   suffer death for the sake of a girl ! -PRON- swear that -PRON- will take revenge .   wherever -PRON- find a girl , -PRON- red blood shall flow . " 
 then -PRON- go deep into the wood , and in -PRON- middle , where -PRON- be   dark , -PRON- find a little bewitched house that be empty . 
 -PRON- say , " -PRON- will live here . -PRON- , benjamin , -PRON- be the young and   weak . -PRON- shall stay at home and keep house . -PRON- other will go and get   thing to eat . " 
 thus -PRON- go into the wood and shoot rabbit , wild deer , bird , and   dove , and whatev -PRON- could eat . these -PRON- bring to benjamin , and -PRON-   have to prepare -PRON- to satisfy -PRON- hunger . -PRON- live together in this   little house for ten year , but the time pass quickly for -PRON- . 
 the little daughter that -PRON- mother , the queen , have give birth to   be now grow up . -PRON- have a good heart , a beautiful face , and a golden   star on -PRON- forehead . 
 once on a large washday -PRON- see twelve man 's shirt in the laundry and   ask -PRON- mother , " whose be these twelve shirt ? -PRON- be much too small   for father . " 
 the queen answer with a heavy heart , " dear child , -PRON- belong to -PRON-   twelve brother . " 
 the girl say , " where be -PRON- twelve brother ? i have never even hear   of -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- answer , " only god know where -PRON- be . -PRON- be wander about   in the world . " 
 then -PRON- take the girl , unlock the room for -PRON- , and show -PRON- the   twelve coffin with the wood shaving and the coffin pillow . 
 " these coffin , " -PRON- say , " be intend for -PRON- brother , but -PRON-   secretly run away before -PRON- be bear , " and -PRON- tell -PRON- how everything   have happen . 
 then the girl say , " dear mother , do not cry . i will go and look for -PRON-   brother . " 
 then -PRON- take the twelve shirt and go forth into the great wood .   -PRON- walk the entire day , in the evening come to the bewitch little   house . 
 -PRON- go inside and find a young lad , who ask , " where do -PRON- come   from , and where be -PRON- go ? " 
 -PRON- be astound that -PRON- be so beautiful , that -PRON- be wear royal   clothing , and that -PRON- have a star on -PRON- forehead . 
 " i be a princess and be look for -PRON- twelve brother . i will walk on   as long as the sky be blue , until i find -PRON- . " -PRON- also show -PRON- the   twelve shirt that belong to -PRON- . 
 benjamin see that -PRON- be -PRON- sister , and say , " i be benjamin , -PRON-   young brother . " 
 -PRON- begin to cry for joy , and benjamin do so as well . -PRON- kiss and   embrace one another with great love . 
 then -PRON- say , " dear sister , i must warn -PRON- that -PRON- have agree that   every girl whom -PRON- meet must die . " 
 -PRON- say , " i will gladly die , if i can thus redeem -PRON- twelve brother . " 
 " no , " -PRON- answer , " -PRON- shall not die . sit under this tub until -PRON-   eleven brother come , and i will make -PRON- right with -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- do this , and when night fall -PRON- come home from the hunt . as -PRON-   sit at the table eat , -PRON- ask , " what be new ? " 
 benjamin say , " do n't -PRON- know anything ? " 
 " no , " -PRON- answer . 
 -PRON- continue speak , " -PRON- have be in the wood while i stay at   home , but i know more than -PRON- do . " 
 " then tell -PRON- , " -PRON- shout . 
 -PRON- answer , " if -PRON- will promise -PRON- that the next girl -PRON- meet shall   not be kill . " 
 " yes , " -PRON- all shout . " -PRON- will show -PRON- mercy . just tell -PRON- . " 
 then -PRON- say , " -PRON- sister be here , " and lift up the tub . the princess   come forth in -PRON- royal clothing and with the golden star on -PRON- forehead ,   so beautiful , delicate , and fine . 
 -PRON- all rejoice , fall around -PRON- neck and kiss -PRON- , and -PRON-   love -PRON- with all -PRON- heart . 
 now -PRON- stay at home with benjamin and help -PRON- with the work . the   eleven go into the wood and capture wild game , deer , bird , and dove ,   so -PRON- would have something to eat . -PRON- sister and benjamin prepare -PRON-   all . -PRON- gather wood for cooking , herb for the stew , and put the pot   onto the fire so a meal be always ready when the eleven come home . -PRON-   also keep the house in order , and make up the bed white and clean . the   brother be always satisfied , and -PRON- live happily with -PRON- . 
 one time the two of -PRON- have prepare a good meal at home , and so -PRON-   sit together and eat and drink and be ever so happy . now there be a   little garden next to the bewitched house , and in -PRON- there be twelve   lily , the kind that be call " student . " want to bring some   pleasure to -PRON- brother , -PRON- pick the twelve flower , intend to give   one to each of -PRON- when -PRON- be eat . but in the same instant that   -PRON- pick the flower , the twelve brother be transform into twelve   raven , and -PRON- fly away above the wood . the house and the garden   disappear as well . 
 now the poor girl be alone in the wild wood . look around , -PRON- see   an old woman stand next to -PRON- . 
 the old woman say , " -PRON- child , what have -PRON- do ? " why do -PRON- not   leave the twelve white flower stand ? those be -PRON- brother , and now   -PRON- have be transform into raven forever . " 
 the girl say , cry , " be there no way to redeem -PRON- ? " 
 " no , " say the old woman , " there be only one way in the world , and -PRON-   be so difficult that -PRON- will never redeem -PRON- . -PRON- must remain silent   for seven whole year , neither speak nor laugh . if -PRON- speak a   single word , even if all but one hour of the seven year have pass , then   -PRON- will all be for nothing , and -PRON- brother will be kill by that one   word . " 
 then the girl say in -PRON- heart , " i know for sure that i will redeem -PRON-   brother . " 
 -PRON- go and find a tall tree and climb to -PRON- top , where -PRON- sit   and span , without speaking and without laugh . 
 now -PRON- come to pass that a king be hunt in these wood . -PRON- have a   large greyhound that run to the tree where the girl be sit . -PRON- jump   about , yelp and bark up the tree . the king come , see the beautiful   princess with the golden star on -PRON- forehead , and be so enchanted by -PRON-   beauty that -PRON- shout up to -PRON- , ask -PRON- to become -PRON- wife . -PRON- give   -PRON- no answer , but nod with -PRON- head . then -PRON- -PRON- climb the tree ,   carry -PRON- down , set -PRON- on -PRON- horse , and take -PRON- home with -PRON- . 
 -PRON- wedding be celebrate with great pomp and joy , but the bride   neither speak nor laugh . 
 after -PRON- have live a few year happily together , the king 's mother ,   who be a wicked woman , begin to slander the young queen , say to the   king , " -PRON- have bring home a common beggar woman for -PRON- . who know   what kind of godless thing -PRON- be secretly do . even if -PRON- be a mute   and can not speak , -PRON- could at least laugh . anyone who do not laugh have   an evil conscience . " 
 at first the king do not want to believe this , but the old woman keep   -PRON- up so long , accuse -PRON- of so many wicked thing , that the king   finally let -PRON- be convince , and -PRON- sentence -PRON- to death . 
 a great fire be light in the courtyard , where -PRON- be to be burn to   death . the king stand upstairs at -PRON- window , look on with cry eye ,   for -PRON- still love -PRON- dearly . -PRON- have already be bind to the stake ,   and the fire be lick at -PRON- clothing with -PRON- red tongue , when the   last moment of the seven year pass . 
 a whirring sound be hear in the air , and twelve raven approach ,   land together . as -PRON- touch the earth , -PRON- be -PRON- twelve brother ,   whom -PRON- have redeem . -PRON- rip the fire apart , put out the flame , and   free -PRON- sister , kiss and embrace -PRON- . 
 now that -PRON- could open -PRON- mouth and speak , -PRON- tell the king why -PRON-   have remain silent and have never laugh . 
 the king rejoice to hear that -PRON- be innocent , and -PRON- all live   happily together until -PRON- die . the wicked stepmother be bring before   the court and place in a barrel fill with boil oil and poisonous   snake , and -PRON- die an evil death . 

 the pack of scoundrel 

 " yes , " answer the hen . " come , let -PRON- go and have some fun together . 
 together -PRON- go up the mountain , and since -PRON- be a clear day , -PRON- stay until evening . 
 now i do not know whether -PRON- be because -PRON- have overeaten , or -PRON- be just in high spirit , but -- to make a long story short -- -PRON- do not want to go back home on foot , so the rooster have to make a little carriage out of nutshell . 
 when -PRON- be finish , the hen sit down in -PRON- and say to the rooster , " -PRON- can hitch -PRON- to -PRON- . " 
 " -PRON- be dream ! " say the rooster . " i would rather go home on foot than have -PRON- hitch up . that be not -PRON- agreement . i want to be the coachman and sit in the driver 's seat . i be not go to pull -PRON- . " 
 while -PRON- be quarrel about this , a duck come quack by . " -PRON- thief , who invite -PRON- to -PRON- nut mountain ? wait ! -PRON- will be sorry ! " and with an open beak -PRON- attack the rooster . 
 the rooster do not take this lie down . jump furiously onto the duck , -PRON- hack at -PRON- so fiercely with one of -PRON- spur that -PRON- beg for mercy , and as punishment -PRON- have to accept be hitch to the carriage . 
 so the rooster sit in the driver 's seat and be the coachman , and away -PRON- speed . 
 " run , duck ! run as fast as -PRON- can ! " 
 after -PRON- have travel a little way -PRON- meet two people on foot , a pin and a needle . 
 " stop ! stop ! " shout the pin and the needle , say that soon -PRON- would be pitch dark , and -PRON- would not be able to walk another step . moreover , the road be very dirty . -PRON- ask if -PRON- would not be able to climb inside for a little way , explain that -PRON- have be at the tailor 's tavern just outside the town gate , and that -PRON- have sit there too long over -PRON- beer . 
 see that -PRON- be thin people and would not take up much room , the rooster let -PRON- both climb in , although -PRON- do have to promise that -PRON- would not step on -PRON- or on the hen 's foot . 
 late that evening -PRON- come to an inn , where -PRON- turn in , not want to drive any further into the night . furthermore , the duck 's foot be not do well , and -PRON- be waddle from one side to the other . 
 at first the innkeeper do not want to receive -PRON- . -PRON- say that -PRON- inn be already full , but -PRON- be also think that these be not very respectable people . -PRON- beg -PRON- with -PRON- kind word , offer to give -PRON- the egg that the hen have lay on the way , and tell -PRON- that -PRON- could keep the duck , who lay an egg every day . finally -PRON- say that -PRON- could spend the night there . 
 -PRON- order food and drink , and have a high time . 
 early the next morning , just as -PRON- be get light , and everyone be still asleep , the rooster wake up the hen . -PRON- get the egg , peck -PRON- open , and eat -PRON- together , throw the shell into the fireplace . then -PRON- go to the needle , who be still asleep , grab -PRON- by the head , and stick -PRON- into the innkeeper 's seat cushion . -PRON- stick the pin into -PRON- towel , and then without further ado -PRON- flee across the heath . 
 the duck , who prefer to sleep under the open sky , have spend the night in the courtyard , and -PRON- hear -PRON- sneak away . -PRON- force -PRON- to wake up , find a brook , and swim away downstream , much faster than -PRON- have travel in front of the carriage . 
 a few hour later the innkeeper climb out of the feather , wash -PRON- , and start to dry off on the towel when the pin go across -PRON- face , leave a red streak from one ear to the other . then -PRON- go into the kitchen . -PRON- want to light -PRON- pipe , but as -PRON- approach the fireplace , the eggshell spring into -PRON- eye . 
 " everything be after -PRON- head today , " -PRON- say , sit down crossly in the grandfather chair , but -PRON- jump up immediately , shout , " ouch ! " the needle have stick -PRON- even worse , and not in the head . 
 now -PRON- be totally angry . suspect the guest who have arrive so late yesterday evening , -PRON- go to look for -PRON- , but -PRON- be go . 
 -PRON- then vow never again to take in such a pack of scoundrel who eat and drink a lot , pay nothing , and for thank play mean trick . 

 little brother and little sister 

 -PRON- walk the whole day over meadow , field , and stone . and when -PRON-   rain the little sister say , " god and -PRON- heart be cry together ! " 
 in the evening -PRON- come to a large forest , and -PRON- be so tired from   sorrow and hunger and from the long walk that -PRON- climb into a hollow   tree and fall asleep . the next day when -PRON- awake the sun be already   high in the sky and shine hotly down into the tree . 
 then the brother say , " sister , i be thirsty . if i know of a little   spring i would go and get a drink . i think i hear one . " 
 the brother get up and take -PRON- sister by the hand to try to find the   spring . 
 now the wicked stepmother be a witch , and -PRON- have see how the two   child have go away , and have secretly crept after -PRON- , as witch do ,   and -PRON- have bewitch all the spring in the wood . 
 -PRON- find a spring , glisten as -PRON- run over the stone . the brother   be about to drink from -PRON- , but -PRON- sister hear how -PRON- rush sound   say , " whoever drink from -PRON- will become a tiger . whoever drink from -PRON-   will become a tiger . " 
 then the sister cry out , " please , brother , do not drink , or -PRON- will   become a wild animal and tear -PRON- to piece . " 
 the brother do not drink , although -PRON- be very thirsty , but say , " i   will wait for the next spring . " 
 when -PRON- come to the second spring the sister hear -PRON- say as well ,   " whoever drink from -PRON- will become a wolf . whoever drink from -PRON- will   become a wolf . " 
 then the sister cry out , " please , brother , do not drink , or -PRON- will   become a wolf and eat -PRON- up . " 
 the brother do not drink , and say , " i will wait until -PRON- come to the   next spring , but then i must drink , say what -PRON- will , for i be very   thirsty . " 
 when -PRON- come to the third spring the sister hear how -PRON- rush   sound say , " whoever drink from -PRON- will become a deer . whoever drink   from -PRON- will become a deer . " 
 the sister say , " oh , brother , do not drink , or -PRON- will become a deer   and run away from -PRON- . " 
 but the brother have already kneel down by the spring , lean over , and   drunk from the water . as soon as the first drop touch -PRON- lip -PRON- lie   there in the form of a young deer . 
 now the sister cry over -PRON- poor bewitch brother , and the deer   cry also , sit sadly next to -PRON- . 
 finally the girl say , " be quiet , -PRON- sweet little deer . i will never ,   never leave -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- take off -PRON- golden garter and put -PRON- around the deer 's neck . then   -PRON- pick some rush and wove -PRON- into a soft cord . this -PRON- tie to   the little animal and lead -PRON- onward , walk deep and deep into the   wood . 
 after -PRON- have walk a long , long way -PRON- finally come to a little   house . the girl look in , and because -PRON- be empty , -PRON- think , " -PRON- can   stay here and live . " 
 -PRON- find leaf and moss to make a soft bed for the deer . every   morning -PRON- go out and gather root , berry , and nut for -PRON- ,   and bring tender grass for the little deer , who eat out of -PRON- hand , and   be contented and play around about -PRON- . in the evening , when the sister   be tired and have say -PRON- prayer , -PRON- lay -PRON- head on the deer 's back   for a pillow , and gently fall asleep . if only the brother have have -PRON-   human form , -PRON- would have be a wonderful life . 
 for some time -PRON- be alone like this in the wilderness . then -PRON-   happen that the king of the country hold a great hunt in these wood .   the blast of the horn , the barking of the dog , and the merry shout of   the huntsman sound through the tree . the little deer hear this and   want ever so much to be with -PRON- . 
 " oh , " -PRON- say to -PRON- sister , " let -PRON- go and join the hunt . i can not   resist -PRON- any longer . " -PRON- beg so long that -PRON- finally agree . 
 " but , " -PRON- say -PRON- to -PRON- , " come back to -PRON- in the evening . i must   lock the door to keep the wild huntsman out . to let -PRON- know that -PRON- be -PRON- ,   knock and say , ' -PRON- little sister , let -PRON- in . ' if -PRON- do not say that , i   will not unlock the door . " 
 then the young deer jump away . -PRON- feel so good and be so happy to be   in the open air . the king and -PRON- huntsmen see the beautiful animal and   start after -PRON- , but -PRON- could not catch -PRON- , and whenever -PRON- think   that -PRON- surely have -PRON- , -PRON- jump away over the bush and disappear . 
 when -PRON- be dark -PRON- run to the little house , knock , and say , " -PRON-   little sister , let -PRON- in . " 
 -PRON- open the door for -PRON- , and -PRON- jump inside and rest all night   on -PRON- soft bed . 
 the next day the hunt begin anew , and when the little deer again hear   the hunting horn and the huntsman 's shout , -PRON- could not resist , but say ,   " sister , open the door for -PRON- . i must be off . " 
 -PRON- sister open the door for -PRON- , say , " but this evening -PRON- must   be here again and say the password . " 
 when the king and -PRON- huntsmen again see the young deer with -PRON- golden   collar , -PRON- all chase after -PRON- , but -PRON- be too fast and nimble for   -PRON- . and so -PRON- go the entire day , but as evening fall , the huntsman have   surround -PRON- , and one of -PRON- wound -PRON- a little in the foot , cause   -PRON- to limp . slowly , -PRON- run away . 
 a huntsman creep after -PRON- to the little house and hear how -PRON- call   out , " -PRON- little sister , let -PRON- in , " and see that someone open the door   for -PRON- , and then immediately shut -PRON- again . the huntsman take notice of   all this , then go to the king and tell -PRON- what -PRON- have see and hear . 
 then the king say , " tomorrow -PRON- will continue with -PRON- hunt . " 
 the little sister , however , be terribly frightened when -PRON- see that   -PRON- young deer be wound . -PRON- wash the blood off -PRON- , apply herb ,   and say , " go to bed , -PRON- sweet deer , so that -PRON- will get well again . " 
 but the wound be so slight that the next morning the deer no longer   feel -PRON- . and when -PRON- again hear the merry sound of the hunt outside , -PRON-   say , " i can not resist -PRON- . i must be there . -PRON- will never get -PRON- . " 
 cry , the sister say , " this time -PRON- will kill -PRON- , and i will be   alone in the wood , forsake by the whole world . i will not let -PRON- out . " 
 " then i will die here from grief , " answer the deer . " when i hear the   hunt horn i feel that i have to jump out of -PRON- shoe ! " 
 then the sister could not help -PRON- , and with a heavy heart -PRON-   unlock the door for -PRON- . the deer vigorously and joyfully bound off   into the wood . 
 when the king see -PRON- -PRON- say to -PRON- huntsman , " chase after -PRON- all day   long and into the night , but take care that no one do -PRON- any harm . " 
 as soon as the sun have set the king say to the huntsman , " now come and   show -PRON- the little house in the wood . " 
 when -PRON- come to the door -PRON- knock and call out , " dear little   sister , let -PRON- in . " 
 the door open , and the king walk in , and there stand a girl who be   more beautiful than any girl -PRON- have ever see . the girl be frightened   when -PRON- see that -PRON- be not -PRON- deer , but a man wear a golden crown on   -PRON- head who come in . 
 however , the king look kindly at -PRON- , reach out -PRON- hand to -PRON- ,   and say , " will -PRON- go with -PRON- to -PRON- castle and be -PRON- dear wife ? " 
 " oh , yes , " answer the girl , " but the little deer must go with -PRON- . i   can not leave -PRON- . " 
 the king say , " -PRON- shall stay with -PRON- as long as -PRON- live , and -PRON-   shall want nothing . " 
 just then -PRON- come bound in , and the sister again tie -PRON- to the   cord of rush . -PRON- -PRON- take hold of -PRON- and walk out of the little   house with -PRON- . 
 the king lift the beautiful girl onto -PRON- horse and take -PRON- to -PRON-   castle , where -PRON- wedding be hold with great splendor . -PRON- be now the   queen , and -PRON- live happily together for a long time . the deer be care   for and cherish , and run about in the castle garden . 
 now the wicked stepmother who have cause the child to go out into   the world think that the sister have be tear to piece by wild animal   in the wood , and that the brother , as a deer , have be kill by the   huntsman . when -PRON- hear that -PRON- be happy and well off , envy and   hatred fill -PRON- heart , leave -PRON- no peace . -PRON- only thought be how   -PRON- could bring about -PRON- downfall . 
 -PRON- own daughter , who be ugly as night and have only one eye ,   complain to -PRON- , say , " i be the one who should have become queen . " 
 " just be quiet , " answer the old woman , then comfort -PRON- by say ,   " when the time come i shall be at hand . " 
 as time go by the queen bring a handsome little boy into the world .   -PRON- happen at a time when the king be out hunting . then the old witch   take the form of the chambermaid , go into the room where the queen be   lying and say to -PRON- , " come , -PRON- bath be ready . -PRON- will do -PRON- good and   give -PRON- fresh strength . hurry , before -PRON- get cold . " 
 the witch 's daughter be also nearby . -PRON- carry the weak queen into   the bathroom and put -PRON- into the tub . then -PRON- lock the door shut and   run away . now -PRON- have make a fire of such hellish heat in the bathroom   that the beautiful young queen soon suffocate . 
 when this be do the old woman take -PRON- daughter , put a nightcap on   -PRON- head , and lay -PRON- in the queen 's bed . furthermore , -PRON- give -PRON- the   form and appearance of the queen , but -PRON- could not replace the lose eye .   so that the king would not notice -PRON- , the witch 's daughter be to lie on   the side where -PRON- have no eye . 
 in the evening when the king come home and hear that -PRON- have a little   son -PRON- be delighted . -PRON- be about to go to -PRON- dear wife 's bed to see how   -PRON- be , when the old woman quickly call out , " -PRON- must leave the   curtain close . the queen be not yet permit to look into the light ,   and -PRON- must have -PRON- rest . " 
 the king go away , not know that a false queen be lie there in   -PRON- bed . at midnight when everyone be asleep , the nurse who be sit   in the nursery by the cradle , and who be the only one still awake , see   the door open and the true queen walk in . -PRON- take the child from the   cradle , lay -PRON- on -PRON- arm , and nurse -PRON- . then -PRON- fluff up -PRON-   pillow , lay -PRON- back down , and cover -PRON- with -PRON- little quilt . and -PRON-   do not forget the deer , but go to the corner where -PRON- be lie and   stroke -PRON- back . then -PRON- go back out through the door without say a   word . 
 the next morning the nurse ask the watchman whether anyone have come   into the castle during the night , and -PRON- answer , " no , -PRON- do not see   anyone . " 
 in this manner -PRON- come many night , never speak a word . the nurse   see -PRON- every time , but -PRON- do not dare to tell anyone about -PRON- . after   some time have thus pass , the queen begin to speak in the night , say ,   " how be -PRON- child ? how be -PRON- deer ? i shall come two more time , then never   again . " 
 the nurse do not answer -PRON- , but when the queen have disappear again ,   -PRON- go to the king and tell -PRON- everything . 
 the king say , " good heaven , what be this ? tomorrow night i will keep   watch by the child . " 
 that evening -PRON- go into the nursery , and at midnight the queen again   appear and say , " how be -PRON- child ? how be -PRON- deer ? i shall come one more   time , then never again . " 
 -PRON- nurse the child as -PRON- have do before , and then disappear . 
 the king do not dare to speak to -PRON- , but on the follow night -PRON-   keep watch again . once again -PRON- say , " how be -PRON- child ? how be -PRON- deer ? i   come this one time , then never again . " 
 now the king could not restrain -PRON- . -PRON- jump towards -PRON- , say ,   " -PRON- can only be -PRON- dear wife . " 
 -PRON- answer , " yes , i be -PRON- dear wife , " and in that moment , by the   grace of god , -PRON- come back to life , fresh , vibrant , and healthy . 
 -PRON- tell the king about the crime that the wicked witch and -PRON-   daughter have commit against -PRON- . the king order both to be bring   before the court , and a judgment be pronounce against -PRON- . the daughter   be lead into the wood where -PRON- be tear to piece by wild animal , and   the witch be throw into a fire where -PRON- miserably burn to death . and   as soon as -PRON- have burn to ash , the deer be transform , and -PRON-   receive -PRON- human form again . and the sister and the brother live   happily together until -PRON- die . 

 rapunzel 

 one day the woman be stand at this window , and -PRON- see a bed plant with the most beautiful rapunzel . -PRON- look so fresh and green that -PRON- long for some . -PRON- be -PRON- great desire to eat some of the rapunzel . this desire increase with every day , and not know how to get any , -PRON- become miserably ill . 
 -PRON- husband be frightened , and ask -PRON- , " what ail -PRON- , dear wife ? " 
 " oh , " -PRON- answer , " if i do not get some rapunzel from the garden behind -PRON- house , i shall die . " 
 the man , who love -PRON- dearly , think , " before -PRON- let -PRON- wife die , -PRON- must get -PRON- some of the rapunzel , whatev the cost . " 
 so just as -PRON- be get dark -PRON- climb over the high wall into the sorceress 's garden , hastily dig up a handful of rapunzel , and take -PRON- to -PRON- wife . -PRON- immediately make a salad from -PRON- , which -PRON- devour eagerly . -PRON- taste so very good to -PRON- that by the next day -PRON- desire for more have grow threefold . if -PRON- be to have any peace , the man would have to climb into the garden once again . thus -PRON- set forth once again just as -PRON- be get dark . but no sooner than -PRON- have climb over the wall than , to -PRON- horror , -PRON- see the sorceress stand there before -PRON- . 
 " how can -PRON- dare , " -PRON- ask with an angry look , " to climb into -PRON- garden and like a thief to steal -PRON- rapunzel ? -PRON- will pay for this . " 
 " oh , " -PRON- answer , " let mercy overrule justice . i come to do this out of necessity . -PRON- wife see -PRON- rapunzel from -PRON- window , and such a longing come over -PRON- , that -PRON- would die , if -PRON- do not get some to eat . " 
 the sorceress 's anger abate somewhat , and -PRON- say , " if thing be as -PRON- say , i will allow -PRON- to take as much rapunzel as -PRON- want . but under one condition : -PRON- must give -PRON- the child that -PRON- wife will bring to the world . -PRON- will do well , and i will take care of -PRON- like a mother . " 
 in -PRON- fear the man agree to everything . 
 when the woman give birth , the sorceress appear , name the little girl rapunzel , and take -PRON- away . rapunzel become the most beautiful child under the sun . when -PRON- be twelve year old , the fairy lock -PRON- in a tower that stand in a forest and that have neither a door nor a stairway , but only a tiny little window at the very top . 
 when the sorceress want to enter , -PRON- stand below and call out : 
 a few year later -PRON- happen that a king 's son be rid through the forest . as -PRON- approach the tower -PRON- hear a song so beautiful that -PRON- stop to listen . -PRON- be rapunzel , who be pass the time by sing with -PRON- sweet voice . the prince want to climb up to -PRON- , and look for a door in the tower , but none be to be find . 
 -PRON- ride home , but the song have so touch -PRON- heart that -PRON- return to the forest every day and listen to -PRON- . one time , as -PRON- be thus stand behind a tree , -PRON- see the sorceress approach , and hear -PRON- say : 
 " if that be the ladder into the tower , then sometime i will try -PRON- luck . " 
 and the next day , just as -PRON- be begin to get dark , -PRON- go to the tower and call out : 
 at first rapunzel be terribly frightened when a man such as -PRON- have never see before come in to -PRON- . however , the prince begin talk to -PRON- in a very friendly manner , tell -PRON- that -PRON- heart have be so touch by -PRON- singing that -PRON- could have no peace until -PRON- have see -PRON- in person . then rapunzel lose -PRON- fear , and when -PRON- ask -PRON- if -PRON- would take -PRON- as -PRON- husband , -PRON- think , " -PRON- would rather have -PRON- than would old frau gothel . " -PRON- say yes and place -PRON- hand into -PRON- . 
 -PRON- say , " i would go with -PRON- gladly , but i do not know how to get down . every time that -PRON- come , bring a strand of silk , from which i will weave a ladder . when -PRON- be finish i will climb down , and -PRON- can take -PRON- away on -PRON- horse . " -PRON- arrange that -PRON- would come to -PRON- every evening , for the old woman come by day . 
 the sorceress do not notice what be happen until one day rapunzel say to -PRON- , " frau gothel , tell -PRON- why -PRON- be that -PRON- be more difficult to pull up than be the young prince , who will be arrive any moment now ? " 
 " -PRON- godless child , " cry the sorceress . " what be i hear from -PRON- ? i think i have remove -PRON- from the whole world , but -PRON- have deceive -PRON- nonetheless . " 
 in -PRON- anger -PRON- grab rapunzel 's beautiful hair , wrap -PRON- a few time around -PRON- left hand , grasp a pair of scissor with -PRON- right hand , and snip snap , cut -PRON- off . and -PRON- be so unmerciful that -PRON- take rapunzel into a wilderness where -PRON- suffer greatly . 
 on the evening of the same day that -PRON- send rapunzel away , the fairy tie the cut - off hair to the hook at the top of the tower , and when the prince call out : 
 the prince climb up , but above , instead of -PRON- beloved rapunzel , -PRON- find the sorceress , who peer at -PRON- with poisonous and evil look . 
 " aha ! " -PRON- cry scornfully . " -PRON- have come for -PRON- mistress darling , but that beautiful bird be no longer sit in -PRON- nest , nor be -PRON- sing any more . the cat get -PRON- , and will scratch -PRON- eye out as well . -PRON- have lose rapunzel . -PRON- will never see -PRON- again . " 
 the prince be overcome with grief , and in -PRON- despair -PRON- throw -PRON- from the tower . -PRON- escape with -PRON- life , but the thorn into which -PRON- fall poke out -PRON- eye . blind , -PRON- wander about in the forest , eat nothing but grass and root , and do nothing but weep and wail over the loss of -PRON- beloved wife . thus -PRON- wander about miserably for some year , finally happen into the wilderness where rapunzel live miserably with the twin that -PRON- have give birth to . 
 -PRON- hear a voice and think -PRON- be familiar . -PRON- advance toward -PRON- , and as -PRON- approach , rapunzel recognize -PRON- , and cry , throw -PRON- arm around -PRON- neck . two of -PRON- tear fall into -PRON- eye , and -PRON- become clear once again , and -PRON- could see as well as before . -PRON- lead -PRON- into -PRON- kingdom , where -PRON- be receive with joy , and for a long time -PRON- live happily and satisfied . 
 return to d. l. ashliman 's folktexts , a library of folktale , folklore , fairy tale , and mythology . 


 the three little man in the wood 

 the woman say to the man 's daughter , " listen , tell -PRON- father that i   would like to marry -PRON- , and then -PRON- shall wash -PRON- in milk every   morning and drink wine , but -PRON- own daughter shall wash -PRON- in water   and drink water . " 
 the girl go home and tell -PRON- father what the woman have say . 
 the man say , " what shall i do ? marriage be a joy , but also a torment . " 
 finally , be unable to reach a decision , -PRON- pull off -PRON- boot and   say , " take this boot . -PRON- have a hole in -PRON- sole . take -PRON- to the attic ,   hang -PRON- on the big nail , and then pour water into -PRON- . if -PRON- hold the   water , then i shall again take a wife , but if the water run through -PRON- ,   then i shall not . " 
 the girl do as -PRON- be tell , but the water pull the hole shut , and the   boot fill up to the top . -PRON- tell -PRON- father what have happen . then -PRON-   -PRON- go up , and when -PRON- see that -PRON- be right , -PRON- go to the widow   and woo -PRON- , and the wedding be hold . 
 the next morning when the two girl get up , there be milk for the man 's   daughter to wash in and wine for -PRON- to drink , but there be water for the   woman 's daughter to wash -PRON- with and water for -PRON- to drink . on the   second morning there be water for washing and water to drink for the   man 's daughter as well as for the woman 's daughter . and on the third   morning there be water for washing and water to drink for the man 's   daughter , and milk for washing and wine to drink for the woman 's daughter ,   and so -PRON- continue . 
 the woman become -PRON- stepdaughter 's bad enemy , and from one day to the   next -PRON- do whatever -PRON- could to make the stepdaughter 's life more   miserable . furthermore , -PRON- be envious because -PRON- stepdaughter be   beautiful and kind , while -PRON- own daughter be ugly and disgusting . 
 once in winter , when everything be frozen as hard as a stone , and the   hill and valley be cover with snow , the woman make a dress of paper ,   call -PRON- stepdaughter , and say , " here , put this dress on and go out   into the wood and fetch -PRON- a basketful of strawberry . i have a longing   for some . " 
 " good heaven . " say the girl . " strawberry do not grow in the winter . the   ground be frozen , and furthermore the snow have cover everything . and why   be i to go out in this paper dress ? -PRON- be so cold outside that one 's   breath freeze . the wind will blow through the dress , and the thorn will   tear -PRON- from -PRON- body . " 
 " will -PRON- contradict -PRON- ? " say the stepmother . " be on -PRON- way , and do not   let -PRON- see -PRON- again until -PRON- have the basketful of strawberry . " then   -PRON- give -PRON- a little piece of hard bread and say , " -PRON- can eat from this   all day , " while thinking , " -PRON- will freeze and starve to death out there ,   and i shall never see -PRON- again . " 
 the girl obey and put on the paper dress and go out with the basket .   there be nothing but snow far and wide , and not a green blade be to be   see . after come into the wood -PRON- see a small house . three little   dwarf peep out . -PRON- greet -PRON- and gently knock on the door . 
 -PRON- shout , " come in , " and -PRON- go into the room and sit down on the   bench by the stove to warm -PRON- and eat -PRON- breakfast . 
 the dwarfs say , " give -PRON- some of -PRON- , too . " 
 " gladly , " -PRON- say , and break -PRON- piece of bread in two , give -PRON-   half . " 
 -PRON- ask , " what be -PRON- do here in the wood in the wintertime and in   -PRON- thin dress . " 
 " oh , " -PRON- answer , " i be suppose to gather a basketful of strawberry ,   and be not allow to go home until i have -PRON- . " 
 when -PRON- have eat -PRON- bread -PRON- give -PRON- a broom and say , " sweep away   the snow next to the back door . " 
 once -PRON- be outside , the three little man say to one another , " what   shall -PRON- give -PRON- for be so polite and good and share -PRON- bread with   -PRON- . " 
 the first one say , " i grant -PRON- that every day -PRON- shall grow more   beautiful . " 
 the second one say , " i grant -PRON- that gold piece shall fall from -PRON-   mouth every time -PRON- speak a word . " 
 the third one say , " i grant -PRON- that a king shall come and take -PRON- to   wife . " 
 the girl do what the dwarf tell -PRON- to , and with the broom -PRON- sweep the   snow away from behind the little house , and what do -PRON- think -PRON- find ?   nothing other than ripe strawberry , which come up out of the snow quite   dark red . joyfully -PRON- gather -PRON- basketful , thank the little man ,   shake hand with each of -PRON- , then run home to take -PRON- stepmother what   -PRON- have demand . 
 upon enter -PRON- say , " good - evening , " and a piece of gold fall out of   -PRON- mouth . then -PRON- tell what have happen to -PRON- in the wood , but with   every word -PRON- speak gold piece fall from -PRON- mouth , and soon the whole   room be cover with -PRON- . 
 " just look at -PRON- arrogance , " shout the stepsister , " to throw gold about   in such a manner . " but -PRON- be secretly envious , and -PRON- too want to go   into the wood to look for strawberry . 
 the mother say , " no , -PRON- dear little daughter , -PRON- be too cold . -PRON- could   freeze to death . " 
 however , -PRON- daughter give no peace , so finally the mother give in . -PRON-   sew a magnificent fur coat for -PRON- and have -PRON- put -PRON- on . -PRON- give -PRON-   butter bread and cake for -PRON- journey . 
 the girl go into the wood and straight up to the little house . the   three little dwarf peep out again , but -PRON- do not greet -PRON- . without   look at -PRON- and without greet -PRON- , -PRON- stumble into the room , sit   down by the stove , and begin to eat -PRON- butter bread and cake . 
 " give -PRON- some of -PRON- , " shout the little man . 
 -PRON- reply , " there be not enough for -PRON- -PRON- . how can i give some of -PRON-   to other ? " 
 when -PRON- be finish eat -PRON- say , " here be a broom for -PRON- . sweep in   front of the back door . " 
 " sweep for yourself , " -PRON- answer . " i be not -PRON- maid . " 
 see that -PRON- be not go to give -PRON- anything , -PRON- walk out the   door . 
 then the little man say to one another , " what shall -PRON- give -PRON- for be   so impolite and have a wicked and envious heart that will never let -PRON-   give a thing to anyone ? " 
 the first one say , " i grant that every day -PRON- shall grow uglier . " 
 the second one say , " i grant that a toad shall jump out of -PRON- mouth with   every word -PRON- say . " 
 the third one say , " i grant that -PRON- shall die an unfortunate death . " 
 the girl look outside for strawberry , but find none , -PRON- go home   angrily . and when -PRON- open -PRON- mouth to tell -PRON- mother what have   happen to -PRON- in the wood , a toad jump out of -PRON- mouth with every   word -PRON- say , so that everyone be repulse by -PRON- . 
 the stepmother now become even more angry , and -PRON- could think of nothing   else but how -PRON- could torment the man 's daughter , who nonetheless grow   more beautiful every day . finally -PRON- take a kettle , set -PRON- on the fire ,   and boil yarn in -PRON- . when -PRON- be boil , -PRON- hang -PRON- on the poor girl 's   shoulder , give -PRON- an ax , and tell -PRON- to go to the frozen river , chop a   hole in the ice , and rinse the yarn . -PRON- obey , go to the river and   chop a hole in the ice . while -PRON- be chop , a splendid carriage   approach , with the king seat inside . 
 the carriage stop , and the king ask , " -PRON- child , who be -PRON- , and what   be -PRON- do here ? " 
 " i be a poor girl , and i be rinse yarn . " 
 the king feel compassion , and when -PRON- see how very beautiful -PRON- be , -PRON-   say to -PRON- , " will -PRON- ride with -PRON- ? " 
 " gladly , " -PRON- answer , for -PRON- be happy to get away from the mother and   sister . 
 so -PRON- get into the carriage and ride away with the king . when -PRON-   arrive at -PRON- palace -PRON- wedding be celebrate with great pomp , just   as the little man have promise the girl . 
 a year later the young queen give birth to a son , and when the stepmother   hear of -PRON- good fortune , -PRON- come with -PRON- daughter to the palace ,   pretend that -PRON- want to pay -PRON- a visit . but when the king go out ,   and no one else be present , the wicked woman seize the queen by the   head , and -PRON- daughter seize -PRON- by the foot , and lift -PRON- out of -PRON-   bed , -PRON- throw -PRON- out the window into the stream that flow by . 
 after that the ugly daughter lie down in the bed , and the old woman   cover -PRON- up over -PRON- head . when the king return and want to speak   to -PRON- wife , the old woman say , " quiet . quiet . -PRON- can not talk to -PRON-   now . -PRON- have a very high fever . -PRON- must let -PRON- rest today . " 
 the king suspect no evil , and do not return until the next morning . as   -PRON- then talk with -PRON- wife , and -PRON- answer -PRON- , a toad jump out with   every word , whereas previously a piece of gold have fall out . when -PRON-   ask what be the matter , the old woman say that -PRON- come from -PRON- high   fever , and that -PRON- would soon lose -PRON- . 
 during the night the kitchen boy see a duck swimming along the gutter , and   -PRON- say , " king , what be -PRON- do ? be -PRON- awake or be -PRON- asleep ? " 
 receive no answer , -PRON- say , " what be -PRON- guest do ? " 
 then the kitchen boy answer , " -PRON- be fast asleep . " 
 -PRON- ask further , " what be -PRON- little baby do ? " 
 -PRON- answer , " -PRON- be sound asleep in -PRON- cradle . " 
 then , in the form of the queen , -PRON- go upstairs , nurse the baby ,   fluffed up -PRON- cover , tuck -PRON- in , and then -PRON- swim off through the   gutter as a duck . 
 -PRON- come in the same manner for two night . on the third night , -PRON- say   to the kitchen boy , " go and tell the king to take -PRON- sword and on the   threshold to swing -PRON- over -PRON- three time . " 
 the kitchen boy run and tell this to the king , who come with -PRON- sword and   swing -PRON- over the spirit three time , and after the third time , -PRON- wife   be stand before -PRON- , vigorous , alive , and healthy , as -PRON- have be   before . 
 the king be elated , but -PRON- keep the queen hide in a room until the   sunday when the baby be to be baptize . at the baptism -PRON- say , " what   do a person deserve who drag someone out of bed and throw -PRON- into the   water ? " 
 the old woman answer , " the scoundrel deserve nothing good than to be   put into a barrel stick full of nail , and then roll downhill into the   water . " 
 then the king say , " -PRON- have pronounce -PRON- own sentence . " 
 -PRON- order such a barrel to be bring . the old woman and -PRON- daughter   be put into -PRON- , and the top be hammer shut . then the barrel be   roll downhill until -PRON- fall into the river . 

 the three spin woman 

 now the queen be just drive by , and when -PRON- hear the cry -PRON- order -PRON- carriage to stop , go into the house , and ask the mother why -PRON- be beat -PRON- daughter so that -PRON- cry could be hear out on the road . 
 the woman be ashamed to reveal -PRON- daughter 's laziness and say , " i can not make -PRON- stop spin . -PRON- want to spin on and on forever , and i be poor , and can not get the flax . " 
 then the queen answer , " there be nothing that i like good to hear than spin . i be never happy than when the wheel be hum . let -PRON- daughter come with -PRON- to the palace . i have flax enough . there -PRON- can spin to -PRON- heart 's content . " 
 the mother be completely satisfied with this , and the queen take the girl with -PRON- . arrive at the palace , -PRON- take -PRON- upstairs to three room which be fill from the bottom to the top with the fine flax . 
 " now spin this flax for -PRON- , " -PRON- say , " and when -PRON- be finish , -PRON- shall have -PRON- old son for a husband . i do not mind if -PRON- be poor . -PRON- untir industry will do for a dowry . " 
 the girl be frighten inside , for -PRON- would not be able to spin the flax , not even if -PRON- have live until -PRON- be three hundred year old , sit at -PRON- every day from morning until evening . when -PRON- be alone -PRON- begin to cry , and just sit there for three day without move a hand . on the third day the queen come , and when -PRON- see that nothing have be spin yet , -PRON- be surprised . the girl excuse -PRON- by say that because of -PRON- sorrow at be away from -PRON- mother 's house , -PRON- have not yet be able to begin . 
 this satisfy the queen , but as -PRON- leave -PRON- say , " tomorrow -PRON- must begin -PRON- work . " 
 when the girl be alone again , -PRON- do not know what to do , or where to turn for help . in -PRON- distress -PRON- go to the window . there -PRON- see three woman come toward -PRON- . the first one have a broad flat foot , the second one have such a large low lip that -PRON- hang down over -PRON- chin , and the third one have a broad thumb . 
 -PRON- stop outside the window , look up , and ask the girl what be wrong with -PRON- . 
 -PRON- bemoan -PRON- trouble to -PRON- , upon which -PRON- offer -PRON- -PRON- help , say , " if -PRON- will invite -PRON- to -PRON- wedding , not be ashamed of -PRON- , call -PRON- -PRON- aunt , and let -PRON- be seat at -PRON- table , -PRON- will spin all the flax for -PRON- , and in a very short time at that . " 
 " with all -PRON- heart , " -PRON- answer . " come right in and begin the work at once . " 
 then -PRON- let the three strange woman in , and clear out a space in the first room where -PRON- could sit down and begin -PRON- spinning . the one pull the thread and peddle the wheel , the second one moisten the thread , the third twist -PRON- , then strike the table with -PRON- finger . each time -PRON- strike , a skein of the most finely spin thread fall to the floor . 
 the girl keep the three spinner hide from the queen , but whenever -PRON- come , the girl show -PRON- the great quantity of thread that have be spin . the queen could not praise -PRON- enough . 
 when the first room be empty , -PRON- go to work on the second one , and on the third one , and -PRON- too be quickly clean out . 
 the three woman now take leave and say to the girl , " do not forget what -PRON- have promise -PRON- . -PRON- will bring -PRON- good luck . " 
 when the girl show the queen the empty room and the large pile of thread , the latter make preparation for the wedding . the bridegroom be happy that -PRON- be get such a clever and industrious wife , and -PRON- praise -PRON- vigorously . 
 " i have three aunt , " say the girl . " because -PRON- have be very kind to -PRON- , i do not want to forget -PRON- in -PRON- good fortune . allow -PRON- to invite -PRON- to the wedding , and let -PRON- be seat next to -PRON- at the table . " 
 the queen and the bridegroom say , " why should -PRON- not allow that ? " 
 when the feast begin , the three woman , dress in strange clothing , enter . 
 the bride say , " welcome , dear aunt . " 
 " oh , " say the bridegroom , " what bring -PRON- to this hideous friendship ? " 
 then -PRON- go to the one with the broad flat foot , and ask , " where do -PRON- get such a broad foot ? " 
 " from peddle , " -PRON- answer . " from peddle . " 
 then the bridegroom go to the second one , and say , " where do -PRON- get this fall lip ? " 
 " from lick , " -PRON- answer . " from lick . " 
 then -PRON- ask the third one , " where do -PRON- get this broad thumb ? " 
 " from twist thread , " -PRON- answer . " from twist thread . " 
 this alarm the prince , and -PRON- say , " -PRON- beautiful bride shall never again touch a spin wheel . " 
 with that -PRON- be free from hateful flax spinning . 

 hansel and gretel 

 one evening as -PRON- be lie in bed worry about -PRON- problem , -PRON- sigh and say to -PRON- wife , " what be to become of -PRON- ? how can -PRON- feed -PRON- child when -PRON- have nothing for -PRON- ? " 
 " man , do -PRON- know what ? " answer the woman . " early tomorrow morning -PRON- will take the two child out into the thick part of the wood , make a fire for -PRON- , and give each of -PRON- a little piece of bread , then leave -PRON- by -PRON- and go off to -PRON- work . -PRON- will not find -PRON- way back home , and -PRON- will be rid of -PRON- . " 
 " no , woman , " say the man . " i will not do that . how could i bring -PRON- to abandon -PRON- own child alone in the wood ? wild animal would soon come and tear -PRON- to piece . " 
 " oh , -PRON- fool , " -PRON- say , " then all four of -PRON- will starve . all -PRON- can do be to plane the board for -PRON- coffin . " and -PRON- give -PRON- no peace until -PRON- agree . 
 " but i do feel sorry for the poor child , " say the man . 
 the two child have not be able to fall asleep because of -PRON- hunger , and -PRON- hear what the stepmother have say to the father . 
 gretel cry bitter tear and say to hansel , " -PRON- be over with -PRON- ! " 
 " be quiet , gretel , " say hansel , " and do not worry . i know what to do . " 
 and as soon as the adult have fall asleep , -PRON- get up , pull on -PRON- jacket , open the low door , and creep outside . the moon be shin brightly , and the white pebble in front of the house be glisten like silver coin . hansel bent over and fill -PRON- jacket pocket with -PRON- , as many as would fit . 
 then -PRON- go back into the house and say , " do n't worry , gretel . sleep well . god will not forsake -PRON- . " then -PRON- go back to bed . 
 at daybreak , even before sunrise , the woman come and wake the two child . " get up , -PRON- lazybon . -PRON- be go into the wood to fetch wood . " then -PRON- give each one a little piece of bread , say , " here be something for midday . do not eat -PRON- any sooner , for -PRON- will not get any more . " 
 gretel put the bread under -PRON- apron , because hansel 's pocket be full of stone . then all together -PRON- set forth into the wood . after -PRON- have walk a little way , hansel begin stop again and again and look back toward the house . 
 the father say , " hansel , why be -PRON- stop and look back ? pay attention now , and do not forget -PRON- leg . " 
 " oh , father , " say hansel , " i be look at -PRON- white cat that be sit on the roof and want to say good - bye to -PRON- . " 
 the woman say , " -PRON- fool , that be not -PRON- cat . that be the morning sun shin on the chimney . " 
 however , hansel have not be look at -PRON- cat but instead have be drop the shiny pebble from -PRON- pocket onto the path . 
 when -PRON- arrive in the middle of the wood , the father say , " -PRON- child gather some wood , and i will make a fire so -PRON- will not freeze . " 
 hansel and gretel gather together some twig , a pile as high as a small mountain 
 the twig be set afire , and when the flame be burn well , the woman say , " lie down by the fire and rest . -PRON- will go into the wood to cut wood . when -PRON- be finish , -PRON- will come back and get -PRON- . " 
 hansel and gretel sit by the fire . when midday come each one eat -PRON- little piece of bread . because -PRON- could hear the blow of an ax , -PRON- think that the father be nearby . however , -PRON- be not an ax . -PRON- be a branch that -PRON- have tie to a dead tree and that the wind be beat back and forth . after -PRON- have sit there a long time , -PRON- eye grow weary and closed , and -PRON- fall sound sleep . 
 when -PRON- finally awake , -PRON- be dark at night . gretel begin to cry and say , " how will -PRON- get out of wood ? " 
 hansel comfort -PRON- , " wait a little until the moon come up , and then -PRON- will find the way . " 
 after the full moon have come up , hansel take -PRON- little sister by the hand . -PRON- follow the pebble that glisten there like newly mint coin , show -PRON- the way . -PRON- walk throughout the entire night , and as morning be break , -PRON- arrive at the father 's house . 
 -PRON- knock on the door , and when the woman open -PRON- and see that -PRON- be hansel and gretel , -PRON- say , " -PRON- wicked child , why do -PRON- sleep so long in the wood ? -PRON- think that -PRON- do not want to come back . " 
 but the father be overjoyed when -PRON- see -PRON- child once more , for -PRON- have not want to leave -PRON- alone . 
 not long afterward there be once again great need everywhere , and one evening the child hear the mother say to the father , " -PRON- have again eat up everything . -PRON- have only a half loaf of bread , and then the song will be over . -PRON- must get rid of the child . -PRON- will take -PRON- deep into the wood , so -PRON- will not find -PRON- way out . otherwise there will be no help for -PRON- . " 
 the man be very dishearten , and -PRON- think , " -PRON- would be good to share the last bit with the child . " 
 but the woman would not listen to -PRON- , scold -PRON- , and criticize -PRON- . -PRON- who say a must also say b , and because -PRON- have give in the first time , -PRON- have to do so the second time as well . 
 the child be still awake and have overhear the conversation . when the adult be asleep , hansel get up again and want to gather pebble as -PRON- have do before , but the woman have lock the door , and hansel could not get out . but -PRON- comfort -PRON- little sister and say , " do n't cry , gretel . sleep well . god will help -PRON- . " 
 early the next morning the woman come and get the child from -PRON- bed . -PRON- receive -PRON- little piece of bread , even less than the last time . on the way to the wood , hansel crumble -PRON- piece in -PRON- pocket , then often stand still , and throw crumb onto the ground . 
 " hansel , why be -PRON- always stop and look around ? " say -PRON- father . " keep walk straight ahead . " 
 " i can see -PRON- pigeon sit on the roof . -PRON- want to say good - bye to -PRON- . " 
 " fool , " say the woman , " that be not -PRON- pigeon . that be the morning sun shin on the chimney . " 
 but little by little hansel drop all the crumb onto the path . the woman take -PRON- deep into the wood than -PRON- have ever be in -PRON- whole lifetime . 
 once again a large fire be make , and the mother say , " sit here , child . if -PRON- get tired -PRON- can sleep a little . -PRON- be go into the wood to cut wood . -PRON- will come and get -PRON- in the evening when -PRON- be finish . " 
 when -PRON- be midday gretel share -PRON- bread with hansel , who have scatter -PRON- piece along the path . then -PRON- fall asleep , and evening pass , but no one come to get the poor child . 
 -PRON- be dark at night when -PRON- awake , and hansel comfort gretel and say , " wait , when the moon come up i will be able to see the crumb of bread that i scatter , and -PRON- will show -PRON- the way back home . " 
 when the moon appear -PRON- get up , but -PRON- could not find any crumb , for the many thousand of bird that fly about in the wood and in the field have peck -PRON- up . 
 hansel say to gretel , " -PRON- will find -PRON- way , " but -PRON- do not find -PRON- . 
 -PRON- walk through the entire night and the next day from morning until evening , but -PRON- do not find -PRON- way out of the wood . -PRON- be terribly hungry , for -PRON- have eat only a few small berry that be grow on the ground . and because -PRON- be so tired that -PRON- leg would no longer carry -PRON- , -PRON- lie down under a tree and fall asleep . -PRON- be already the third morning since -PRON- have leave the father 's house . -PRON- start walk again , but manage only to go deeper and deeper into the wood . if help do not come soon , -PRON- would perish . at midday -PRON- see a little snow - white bird sit on a branch . -PRON- sing so beautifully that -PRON- stop to listen . when -PRON- be finish -PRON- stretch -PRON- wing and fly in front of -PRON- . -PRON- follow -PRON- until -PRON- come to a little house . the bird sit on the roof , and when -PRON- come closer , -PRON- see that the little house be build entirely from bread with a roof make of cake , and the window be make of clear sugar . 
 " let 's help -PRON- to a good meal , " say hansel . " -PRON- will eat a piece of the roof , and gretel , -PRON- eat from the window . that will be sweet . " 
 hansel reach up and break off a little of the roof to see how -PRON- taste , while gretel stand next to the windowpane and be nibble at -PRON- . then a gentle voice call out from inside : 
 but the old woman shake -PRON- head and say , " oh , -PRON- dear child , who bring -PRON- here ? just come in and stay with -PRON- . no harm will come to -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- take -PRON- by the hand and lead -PRON- into -PRON- house . then -PRON- serve -PRON- a good meal : milk and pancake with sugar , apple , and nut . afterward -PRON- make two nice bed for -PRON- , deck in white . hansel and gretel go to bed , think -PRON- be in heaven . but the old woman have only pretended to be friendly . -PRON- be a wicked witch who be lie in wait there for child . -PRON- have build -PRON- house of bread only in order to lure -PRON- to -PRON- , and if -PRON- capture one , -PRON- would kill -PRON- , cook -PRON- , and eat -PRON- ; and for -PRON- that be a day to celebrate . 
 witch have red eye and can not see very far , but -PRON- have a sense of smell like animal , and know when human be approach . 
 when hansel and gretel come near to -PRON- , -PRON- laugh wickedly and speak scornfully , " now i have -PRON- . -PRON- will not get away from -PRON- again . " 
 early the next morning , before -PRON- awake , -PRON- get up , go to -PRON- bed , and look at the two of -PRON- lie there so peacefully , with -PRON- full red cheeks . " -PRON- will be a good mouthful , " -PRON- mumble to -PRON- . then -PRON- grab hansel with -PRON- withered hand and carry -PRON- to a little stall , where -PRON- lock -PRON- behind a cage door . cry as -PRON- may , there be no help for -PRON- . 
 then -PRON- shake gretel and cry , " get up , lazybone ! fetch water and cook something good for -PRON- brother . -PRON- be lock outside in the stall and be to be fatten up . when -PRON- be fat i be go to eat -PRON- . " 
 gretel begin to cry , but -PRON- be all for nothing . -PRON- have to do what the witch demand . now hansel be give the good thing to eat every day , but gretel receive nothing but crayfish shell . 
 every morning the old woman creep out to the stall and shout , " hansel , stick out -PRON- finger , so i can feel if -PRON- be fat yet . " 
 but hansel stick out a little bone , and the old woman , who have bad eye and could not see the bone , think -PRON- be hansel 's finger , and -PRON- wonder why -PRON- do not get fat . 
 when four week have pass and hansel be still thin , impatience overcome -PRON- , and -PRON- would wait no longer . " hey , gretel ! " -PRON- shout to the girl , " hurry up and fetch some water . whether hansel be fat or thin , tomorrow i be go to slaughter -PRON- and boil -PRON- . " 
 oh , how the poor little sister sob as -PRON- be force to carry the water , and how the tear stream down -PRON- cheek ! " dear god , please help -PRON- , " -PRON- cry . " if only the wild animal have devour -PRON- in the wood , then -PRON- would have die together . " 
 " save -PRON- slobbering , " say the old woman . " -PRON- do not help -PRON- at all . " 
 the next morning gretel have to get up early , hang up the kettle with water , and make a fire . 
 " first -PRON- be go to bake , " say the old woman . " i have already make a fire in the oven and knead the dough . " 
 -PRON- push poor gretel outside to the oven , from which fiery flame be leap . " climb in , " say the witch , " and see if -PRON- be hot enough to put the bread in yet . " and when gretel be inside , -PRON- intend to close the oven , and bake -PRON- , and eat -PRON- as well . 
 but gretel see what -PRON- have in mind , so -PRON- say , " i do not know how to do that . how can i get inside ? " 
 " stupid goose , " say the old woman . the opening be big enough . see , i -PRON- could get in . " and -PRON- crawl up stick -PRON- head into the oven . 
 then gretel give -PRON- a shove , cause -PRON- to fall in . then -PRON- close the iron door and secure -PRON- with a bar . the old woman begin to howl frightfully . but gretel run away , and the godless witch burn up miserably . gretel run straight to hansel , unlock -PRON- stall , and cry , " hansel , -PRON- be save . the old witch be dead . " 
 then hansel jump out , like a bird from -PRON- cage when someone open -PRON- door . how happy -PRON- be ! -PRON- throw -PRON- arm around each other 's neck , jump with joy , and kiss one another . because -PRON- now have nothing to fear , -PRON- go into the witch 's house . in every corner be chest of pearl and precious stone . 
 " these be good than pebble , " say hansel , fill -PRON- pocket . 
 gretel say , " i will take some home with -PRON- as well , " and -PRON- fill -PRON- apron full . 
 " but now -PRON- must leave , " say hansel , " and get out of these witch - wood . " 
 after walk a few hour -PRON- arrive at a large body of water . " -PRON- can not get across , " say hansel . " i can not see a walkway or a bridge . " 
 " there be no boat here , " answer gretel , " but there be a white duck swimming . if i ask -PRON- , -PRON- will help -PRON- across . " 
 then -PRON- call out : 
 " no , " answer gretel . " that would be too heavy for the duckling . -PRON- should take -PRON- across one at a time . " 
 that be what the good animal do , and when -PRON- be safely on the other side , and have walk on a little while , the wood grow more and more familiar to -PRON- , and finally -PRON- see the father 's house in the distance . -PRON- begin to run , rush inside , and throw -PRON- arm around the father 's neck . 
 the man have not have even one happy hour since -PRON- have leave the child in the wood . however , the woman have die . gretel shake out -PRON- apron , scatter pearl and precious stone around the room , and hansel add to -PRON- by throw one handful after the other from -PRON- pocket . 
 now all -PRON- care be at an end , and -PRON- live happily together . 
 in the first edition the grimms spell -PRON- hero ' name " hnsel " and " gretel . " in the second edition , " hnsel " and " grethel . " all modern german edition use the spelling " hnsel " and " gretel . " there be no reason to include the umlaut ( whether spell " hnsel " or " haensel " ) in an english translation of the name " hansel , " nor be there any justification for an english translator to revert to the obsolete spelling " grethel . " 
 the phrase " die frau " occur fequently in " hansel and gretel , " especially in the final edition . this phrase can be translate as " -PRON- wife , " " the wife , " " -PRON- woman , " or " the woman . " in -PRON- judgment , the generic " the woman " good fit the story 's child's - eye perspective and tone . 
 the traditional translation of the witch 's verse query " nibble , nibble , little mouse,/ who be nibble at -PRON- house ? " be too good to abandon , although the original german " knuper , knuper , kneischen,/ wer knupert an meinem huschen ? " do not specifically mention a mouse . 
 the grimm brother ( especially wilhelm ) make substantial change to this tale throughout -PRON- publication history . the most significant change come with the second edition ( 1819 ) , although wilhelm continue to revise the story until -PRON- final edition ( no . 7 , 1857 ) . 
 the most substantive alteration in the text of " hansel and gretel " be transformation of the child 's mother into a stepmother . in both the manuscript version ( 1810 ) and the first print edition ( 1812 ) of this well - know tale , the woodcutter 's wife be identify unambiguously and repeatedly as " the mother . "   the second edition be equally clear in identify the woodcutter 's wife as hansel 's and gretel 's mother .   however , with the fourth edition ( 1840 ) the grimms introduce the word " stepmother , " although -PRON- retain the word " mother " in some passage .   the grimms ' final version of the famous tale ( seventh edition , 1857 ) refer to the woodcutter 's wife once as " the stepmother , " twice as " the mother , " and about a dozen time generically as " the woman . " 
 whereas the child 's mother / stepmother grow harsher in succeed edition , -PRON- father grow more introspective and mild , perhaps too mild , for -PRON- be unwilling or unable to stand up to -PRON- domineer wife . " -PRON- would be good to share the last bit with the child . " -PRON- think , in a passage add already in the 1819 edition , but -PRON- wife will not listen to -PRON- . 

 the little peasant 

 one day -PRON- say to -PRON- , " listen , i have a good idea . -PRON- kinsman the   cabinetmaker should make -PRON- a calf out of wood and paint -PRON- brown so that   -PRON- look like any other calf , and with time -PRON- be sure to grow big and be   a cow . " 
 -PRON- wife like this idea , and -PRON- kinsman the cabinetmaker skillfully   put together the calf and plan -PRON- , then paint -PRON- just right . -PRON- make   -PRON- with -PRON- head hang down as if -PRON- be graze . 
 when the cow be be drive out the next morning the little peasant   call to the herder and say , " look , i have a little calf here , but -PRON- be   still small and have to be carry . " 
 the herder say , " all right , " and take -PRON- in -PRON- arm -PRON- carry -PRON-   to the pasture where -PRON- set -PRON- in the grass . 
 the little calf stand there like one that be grazing , and the herder   say , " -PRON- will soon be walk by -PRON- . just look how -PRON- be already   grazing . " 
 that evening when -PRON- be about to drive the herd home again , -PRON- say to   the calf , " if -PRON- can stand there and eat -PRON- fill , -PRON- can also walk on   -PRON- four leg . i do not want to carry -PRON- home again in -PRON- arm . " 
 when the herder drive the cow through the village the little peasant   be stand outside -PRON- door wait for -PRON- little calf . -PRON- be missing ,   and -PRON- ask where -PRON- be . 
 the herder answer , " -PRON- be still stand out there graze . -PRON- would   not stop and come with -PRON- . " 
 the little peasant say , " oh , i must have -PRON- animal back again . " 
 then together -PRON- go back to the pasture , but someone have steal the   calf , and -PRON- be go . 
 the herder say , " -PRON- must have run away . " 
 the little peasant say , " do n't tell -PRON- that , " and -PRON- take the herder   before the mayor , who condemn -PRON- for -PRON- carelessness , and require -PRON-   to give the little peasant a cow for the lost calf . 
 the little peasant and -PRON- wife now have the cow that -PRON- have long   want . -PRON- be very glad , but -PRON- have no feed for -PRON- , and could give   -PRON- nothing to eat , so -PRON- soon have to be slaughter . 
 -PRON- salt the meat , and the little peasant go to town to sell the   hide , hop to buy a new calf with the proceed . 
 on the way -PRON- come to a mill , and there sit a raven with broken wing .   out of pity -PRON- pick -PRON- up and wrap -PRON- in the hide . 
 but then the weather turn very bad with a wind and rain storm . unable   to continue on -PRON- way , -PRON- return to the mill and ask for shelter . 
 the miller 's wife be alone in the house , and -PRON- say to the little   peasant , " -PRON- can sleep in the straw there , " and -PRON- give -PRON- a piece of   bread and cheese . 
 the little peasant eat and then lie down with -PRON- hide at -PRON- side . the   woman think , " -PRON- be tired and have fall asleep . " 
 in the meantime the priest arrive . the miller 's wife receive -PRON-   well , and say , " -PRON- husband be out , so -PRON- can have a feast . " 
 the little peasant listen , and when -PRON- hear -PRON- talk about   feast -PRON- be angry that -PRON- have have to make do with a piece of bread and   cheese . then the woman serve up four different thing : a roast , salad ,   cake , and wine . -PRON- be just about to sit down and eat when someone   knock on the outside door . 
 the woman say , " oh , god , -PRON- be -PRON- husband . " -PRON- quickly hide the roast   inside the tile stove , the wine under the pillow , the salad on top of the   bed , the cake under the bed , and the priest in the hallway chest . 
 then open the door for -PRON- husband , -PRON- say , " thank heaven , -PRON- be   back again . that be such a storm , as if the world be come to an end . " 
 the miller see the little peasant lie in the straw and ask , " what   be that fellow do there ? " 
 " oh , " say -PRON- wife , " the poor rascal come in the storm and rain and   ask for shelter , so i give -PRON- a piece of bread and cheese , and let -PRON-   lie in the straw . " 
 the man say , " i have nothing against that , but hurry and get -PRON-   something to eat . " 
 -PRON- wife say , " i have nothing but bread and cheese . " 
 " i 'll be satisfied with anything , " answer -PRON- husband . " bread and   cheese will be good enough for -PRON- . " then -PRON- look at the little peasant   and say , " come and eat some more with -PRON- . " 
 the little peasant do not have to be ask twice , but get up and eat . 
 afterward the miller see the hide with the raven in -PRON- lie on the   ground , and ask , " what do -PRON- have there ? " 
 the little peasant answer , " i have a fortune - teller inside -PRON- . " 
 " can -PRON- predict anything for -PRON- ? " say the miller . 
 " why not ? " answer the little peasant . " but -PRON- only say four thing ,   and the fifth -PRON- keep to -PRON- . " 
 the miller be curious and say , " let -PRON- predict something . " 
 then the little peasant press against the raven 's head , so that -PRON-   caw and say , " krr , krr . " 
 the miller say , " what do -PRON- say ? " 
 the little peasant answer , " first of all , -PRON- say that there be some   wine under the pillow . " 
 " that would be something ! " cry the miller , and go there and find   the wine . " say some more , " -PRON- say . 
 the little peasant make the raven caw again , then say , " secondly , -PRON-   say that there be a roast in the tile stove . " 
 " that would be something ! " cry the miller , and go there and find   the roast . 
 the little peasant make the raven prophesy still more , and say ,   " thirdly , -PRON- say that there be some salad on top of the bed . " 
 " that would be something ! " cry the miller , and go there and find   the salad . 
 at last the little peasant press against the raven once more until -PRON-   caw , and say , " fourthly , -PRON- say that there be a cake under the bed . " 
 " that would be something ! " cry the miller , and look there and find   the cake . then the two of -PRON- sit down at the table together . but the   miller 's wife be frightened to death and go to bed , take all the key   with -PRON- . 
 the miller would have like very much to know the fifth thing , but the   little peasant say , " first , let -PRON- eat the four thing in peace , for the   fifth thing be something bad . " 
 so -PRON- eat , after which -PRON- bargain as to how much the miller would   pay for the fifth prophesy , finally agree on three hundred taler . then   the little peasant once more press against the raven 's head until -PRON-   caw loudly . 
 the miller ask , " what do -PRON- say ? " 
 the little peasant answer , " -PRON- say that the devil be hide out   there in the hallway chest . " 
 the miller say , " the devil must leave , " and open the outside door . 
 then the woman have to give up the key , and the little peasant unlock   the chest . the priest run out as fast as -PRON- could , and the miller say , "   i see the black fellow with -PRON- own eye . -PRON- be true . " 
 the next morning at dawn the little peasant quickly make off the with   the three hundred taler . 
 at home the little peasant gradually begin to prosper . -PRON- build a nice   house , and the peasant say , " the little peasant have certainly be to   the place where golden snow fall and people carry money home by the   bushel . " 
 then the little peasant be summon before the mayor and order to   tell where -PRON- wealth come from . 
 -PRON- answer , " i sell -PRON- cow 's hide in the town for three hundred   taler . " 
 when the peasant hear this , -PRON- too want to benefit from this   favorable exchange . -PRON- run home , slaughter all -PRON- cow , and   strip off -PRON- hide in order to sell -PRON- in the town at this great   profit . 
 the mayor , however , say , " but -PRON- maid must go first . " 
 when -PRON- come to the buyer in the town , -PRON- do not give -PRON- more than   three taler for one hide , and when the other come , -PRON- do not give -PRON-   even that much , say , " what be i to do with all these hide ? " 
 then the peasant be angry that the little peasant have deceive -PRON- .   want to take revenge against -PRON- , -PRON- accuse -PRON- of fraud before the   mayor . the innocent little peasant be unanimously sentence to death , and   -PRON- be to be roll into the water in a barrel pierce with hole . -PRON- be   lead out , and a priest be bring who be to say a mass for -PRON- soul . the   other have to step back , and when the little peasant look at the priest   -PRON- recognize the man who have be with the miller 's wife . 
 -PRON- say to -PRON- , " i free -PRON- from the chest . free -PRON- from the barrel . " 
 just then a shepherd come by with a flock of sheep . -PRON- be the very   shepherd who , as the little peasant know , have long want to be mayor .   then the little peasant cry out with all -PRON- might , " no , i will not do   -PRON- ! even if the whole world insist on -PRON- , i will not do -PRON- ! " 
 hear this , the shepherd come up to -PRON- , and ask , " what be -PRON- up   to ? what be -PRON- that -PRON- will not do ? " 
 the little peasant say , " -PRON- want to make -PRON- mayor , if i will get   into the barrel , but i will not do -PRON- . " 
 the shepherd say , " if that be all that be need to be mayor , i would   get into the barrel at once . " 
 the little peasant say , " if -PRON- will get in , then -PRON- will be mayor . " 
 the shepherd agree and get in , and the little peasant nail the top   down . then -PRON- take the shepherd 's flock for -PRON- , and drive -PRON- away .   the priest go to the people and tell -PRON- that the mass have be read .   then -PRON- come and roll the barrel towards the water . as the barrel   begin to roll , the shepherd cry out , " i will gladly be mayor . " 
 -PRON- believe that -PRON- be the little peasant who be say this and   answer , " that be what -PRON- intend , but first take a look around down   there , " and -PRON- roll the barrel into the water . 
 after that the peasant go home , and as -PRON- be enter the   village , the little peasant approach -PRON- , happily drive a flock of   sheep . the astonished peasant say , " little peasant , where be -PRON- come   from ? do -PRON- come out of the water ? " 
 " yes indeed , " answer the little peasant . " i sink deep , deep down ,   until at last i reach the bottom . i push the bottom out of the barrel ,   and crawl out . there be beautiful meadow there , where many lamb be   grazing . i bring this flock with -PRON- from there . " 
 the peasant say , " be there more there ? " 
 " oh , yes , " -PRON- say . " more than -PRON- could use . " 
 then the peasant decide that -PRON- too would get some sheep for   -PRON- , a flock for each one of -PRON- , but the mayor say , " i come   first . " 
 so -PRON- go to the water together , and just then in the blue sky there   be some of the small fleecy cloud that be call little lamb . -PRON-   be reflect in the water , and the peasant cry out , " -PRON- can already   see the sheep down there on the bottom . " 
 the mayor push -PRON- way to the front , say , " i will go down first ,   and take a look around . if everything be all right , i shall call -PRON- . "   then -PRON- jump in . 
 " plop , " go the water . -PRON- think that -PRON- be call -PRON- to come ,   and the whole lot of -PRON- hastily plunge in after -PRON- . 
 then the entire village be dead , and the little peasant , as the only   heir , become a rich man . 

 the two traveler 

 the shoemaker take a mighty drink , and the storm on -PRON- face begin to   clear away . -PRON- give the bottle back to the tailor , and say , " i take a   hearty gulp . -PRON- have a lot to say about heavy drinking , but not    much about great thirst . shall -PRON- travel together ? " 
 " all right , " answer the tailor , " but only if only -PRON- suit -PRON- to go   to a big town where there be no lack of work . " 
 " that be just where i want to go , " answer the shoemaker . " in a small   place there be nothing to be earn , and in the country people prefer to   go barefoot . " 
 thus -PRON- travel on together , always set one foot before the other   like a weasel in the snow . both of -PRON- have time enough , but little to   eat . when -PRON- reach a town -PRON- go about look for work , and   because the tailor look so lively and merry , and have such fine red   cheek , every one give -PRON- work willingly , and if -PRON- be lucky , the   master 's daughter give -PRON- a kiss as well . 
 whenever -PRON- meet up with the shoemaker , the tailor always have the most in   -PRON- bundle . the ill - temper shoemaker would make a sour face , think ,   " the great the rascal , the good the luck . " 
 but the tailor would begin   to laugh and to sing , and share everything -PRON- have with -PRON- comrade . if a   couple of penny jingle in -PRON- pocket , -PRON- order drink , then   cheerfully thump the table until the glass dance . -PRON- motto be " easy   come , easy go . " 
 after -PRON- have travel for some time , -PRON- come to a great forest through   which pass the way to the capital . two footpath lead through   -PRON- , one of which be a seven day ' journey and the other only two , but   neither of -PRON- know which way be the short one . -PRON- sit down beneath   an oak tree and discuss together what preparation to make , and for how   many day -PRON- should provide -PRON- with bread . 
 the shoemaker say , " one must plan ahead for the unexpected . i will take   with -PRON- bread for a week . " 
 " what ? " say the tailor . " haul bread for seven day on one 's back like a   beast of burden and not be able to look about ? i shall trust in god , and   not trouble -PRON- about anything . the money i have in -PRON- pocket be as   good in summer as in winter , but in hot weather bread dry out and get   moldy on top of that . even -PRON- coat reach only to -PRON- ankle . why   should not -PRON- find the right way ? bread for two day , and that be enough . " 
 therefore each person buy -PRON- own bread , and then -PRON- try -PRON- luck   in the forest .     -PRON- be as quiet there as in a church . no wind stir , no brook murmur ,   no bird sing , and no sunbeam find -PRON- way through the thickly leave   branch . the shoemaker do not speak a word . the bread weigh so heavily   on -PRON- back that the sweat stream down -PRON- cross and gloomy face . 
 the tailor , however , be quite merry . walk on with a spring in each   step , -PRON- whistle on a leaf , or sing a song , and think to -PRON- , " god   in heaven must be pleased that i be so happy . " 
 this last two day , but on the third there be still no end to the   forest , and the tailor have eat up all -PRON- bread . thus -PRON- heart sink   down a yard deep . nevertheless , -PRON- do not lose courage , but rely on   god and on -PRON- luck . on the evening of the third day -PRON- lie down hungry   under a tree , and rise again the next morning still hungry . the fourth day   be   the same , and when the shoemaker seat -PRON- on a fallen tree and   devour -PRON- dinner the tailor be only a spectator . 
 if -PRON- beg for a little piece of bread , the other laugh mockingly , and   say , " -PRON- have always be so merry . now -PRON- can see for once what -PRON- be   like to be sad . bird that s too early in the morning be catch by the   hawk in the evening . " 
 in short , -PRON- be merciless . on the fifth morning the poor tailor could no   longer stand up and be hardly able to utter one word for weakness . -PRON-   cheek be white , and -PRON- eye be red . 
 then the shoemaker say to -PRON- , " i will give -PRON- a bit of bread today , but   in return for -PRON- , i will put out -PRON- right eye . " 
 the unhappy tailor , who still wish to save -PRON- life , have to submit . -PRON-   weep once more with both eye , and then hold -PRON- out , and the shoemaker ,   who have a heart of stone , put out -PRON- right eye with a sharp knife . the   tailor remember what -PRON- mother have once say to -PRON- when -PRON- have be   snack in the pantry : " eat whatev -PRON- can , and suffer whatev -PRON-   must . " 
 after eat -PRON- dearly - buy bread , -PRON- get on -PRON- leg again , forget -PRON-   misery , and comfort -PRON- with the thought that -PRON- could always see   enough with one eye . but on the sixth day , hunger make -PRON- feel again ,   almost consume -PRON- heart . that evening -PRON- fall down by a tree , and on   the seventh morning -PRON- be too weak to get up , and death be close at   hand . 
 then the shoemaker say , " i will show mercy and give -PRON- bread once more ,   but -PRON- shall not have -PRON- for nothing . i shall put out -PRON- other eye for   -PRON- . " 
 and now the tailor feel how careless -PRON- life have be , pray to god for   forgiveness , and say , " do what -PRON- will . i will bear what i must , but   remember that -PRON- lord god do not always look on passively , and that an   hour will come when the evil deed which -PRON- have do to -PRON- , and which i   have not deserve of -PRON- , will be requite . when time be good with -PRON-   i share what i have with -PRON- . -PRON- trade be such that one stitch must follow   another . if i no longer have -PRON- eye and can sew no more , i must go   beg . at any rate do not leave -PRON- here alone when i be blind , or i   shall die of hunger . " 
 the shoemaker , however , who have drive god out of -PRON- heart , take the   knife and put out -PRON- left eye . then -PRON- give -PRON- a bit of bread to eat ,   hold out a stick to -PRON- , and lead -PRON- on behind -PRON- . 
 at sunset , -PRON- get out of the forest , and before -PRON- in an open field   stand the gallow . the shoemaker lead the blind tailor there , and then go   on -PRON- way , leave -PRON- there alone . weariness , pain , and hunger make the   wretched man fall asleep , and -PRON- sleep the whole night . -PRON- awake at dawn ,   not know where -PRON- be . 
 two poor sinner be hang on the gallow , with a crow sit on the head   of each of -PRON- . then one of the man who have be hang begin to speak ,   and say , " brother , be -PRON- awake ? " 
 " yes , i be awake , " answer the second . 
 " then i will tell -PRON- something , " say the first . " the dew that this night   have fall down over -PRON- from the gallow give everyone who wash   -PRON- with -PRON- -PRON- eye again . if the blind know this , how many would   regain -PRON- sight who do not believe that to be possible ? " 
 hear this the tailor take -PRON- handkerchief , press -PRON- on the grass ,   and when -PRON- be moist with dew , wash the socket of -PRON- eye with -PRON- .   immediately what the man on the gallow have say come true , and a pair of   healthy new eye fill the socket . -PRON- be not long before the tailor see   the sun rise from behind the mountain . in the plain before -PRON- lie the   great   royal city with -PRON- magnificent gate and hundred tower , and the golden   ball and cross on the spire begin to shine . -PRON- could distinguish every   leaf on the tree , see the bird fly past , and the gnat dance in the   air . -PRON- take a needle out of -PRON- pocket , and as -PRON- could thread -PRON- as well   as ever -PRON- have do , -PRON- heart dance with delight . 
 -PRON- throw -PRON- on -PRON- knee , thank god for the mercy -PRON- have show -PRON- ,   and say -PRON- morning prayer , not forget to pray for the poor sinner   who be hang there swing against each other in the wind like the   pendulum of clock . then -PRON- take -PRON- bundle on -PRON- back and soon forget   the sorrow -PRON- have endure , and go on -PRON- way singing and whistling . 
 the first thing -PRON- come to be a brown foal freely run about the   field . -PRON- catch -PRON- by the mane , and want to mount -PRON- and ride into the   town . the foal , however , beg for -PRON- freedom . " i be still too young , "   -PRON- say . " even a light tailor such as -PRON- be would break -PRON- back in two .   let -PRON- go until i have grow strong . perhaps a time may come when i can   reward -PRON- for -PRON- . " 
 " run off , " say the tailor . " i see that -PRON- be still only a   whippersnapper . "   -PRON- give -PRON- a touch on -PRON- back with a switch , whereupon -PRON- kick up -PRON-   hind leg for joy , jump over hedge and ditch , and gallop away into   the open country . 
 the little tailor have eat nothing since the day before . " the sun fill   -PRON- eye , " -PRON- say , " but bread do not fill -PRON- mouth . the first thing that   come -PRON- way and be even half edible will have to suffer for -PRON- . " 
 in the meantime a stork step solemnly over the meadow towards -PRON- .   " stop , stop , " cry the tailor , and seize -PRON- by the leg . " i do not know   if -PRON- be good to eat or not , but -PRON- hunger leave -PRON- no great choice . i   must cut -PRON- head off , and roast -PRON- . " 
 " do n't do that , " reply the stork . " i be a sacred bird that bring   mankind great profit , and no one harm -PRON- . if -PRON- spare -PRON- life i will be   able do -PRON- good in some other way . " 
 " then be off , cousin longleg , " say the tailor . the stork rise up , let   -PRON- long leg hang down , and fly gently away . 
 " what be to be the end of this ? " say the tailor to -PRON- at last . " -PRON-   hunger grow great and great , and -PRON- stomach more and more empty .   whatev come in -PRON- way now be lose . " 
 then -PRON- see a couple of young   duck which be on a pond come swimming towards -PRON- . " -PRON- come just at   the right moment , " say -PRON- , and lay hold of one of -PRON- and be about to   wr -PRON- neck . 
 with this an old duck which be hide among the reed , begin to squawk   loudly . -PRON- swim to -PRON- with open beak , beg -PRON- urgently to spare -PRON-   dear child . " can -PRON- not imagine , " say -PRON- , " how -PRON- mother would   mourn if someone want to carry -PRON- off , and do an end to -PRON- . " 
 " quiet down , " say the good - natured tailor . " -PRON- shall keep -PRON-   child , " and -PRON- set the capture one back into the water . 
 when -PRON- turn around , -PRON- be stand in front of an old tree which be   partly hollow , and see some wild bee fly in and out of -PRON- . " there i   shall find the reward of -PRON- good deed , " say the tailor . " the honey will   refresh -PRON- . " 
 but the queen bee come out and threaten -PRON- , say , " if -PRON- touch -PRON-   people and destroy -PRON- nest -PRON- sting shall pierce -PRON- skin like ten   thousand red - hot needle . but if -PRON- leave -PRON- in peace and go -PRON- way -PRON-   will do -PRON- a service for -PRON- another time . " 
 the little tailor see that here also nothing be to be do . three dish   empty and nothing on the fourth be a bad dinner . -PRON- drag -PRON-   therefore with -PRON- starve - out stomach into the town , and as -PRON- be just   strike twelve , all be ready - cook for -PRON- in the inn , and -PRON- be able   to sit down at once to dinner . 
 when -PRON- be satisfied -PRON- say , " now i will get to work . " -PRON- go around   the town , seek a master , and soon find a good situation . because -PRON-   already have thoroughly learn -PRON- trade , -PRON- be not long before -PRON- become   famous , and everyone want to have a new coat make by the little tailor .   -PRON- reputation grow day by day . 
 " i can go no further in skill , " say -PRON- , " and yet thing improve every   day . " at last the king appoint -PRON- court tailor . 
 but strange thing do happen in the world . on that very same day -PRON-   former   comrade the shoemaker also become court shoemaker . when the latter caught   sight of the tailor , and see that -PRON- once more have two healthy eye , -PRON-   conscience trouble -PRON- . " before -PRON- take revenge on -PRON- , " -PRON- think to   -PRON- , " i must dig a pit for -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- , however , who dig a pit for another , fall into -PRON- -PRON- . in the   evening when work be over and -PRON- be grow dark , -PRON- sneak to the king   and say , " -PRON- majesty , the tailor be an arrogant fellow and have boast   that -PRON- will get the golden crown back again that be lose age ago . " 
 " that would please -PRON- , " say the king , and the next morning -PRON- have the   tailor bring   before -PRON- , and order -PRON- to get the crown back again , or   to leave the city forever . 
 " aha , " think the tailor . " a rogue give more than -PRON- have . if the   bad - temper king want -PRON- to do what no one else can do , i will not wait   until morning , but will leave town at once . " 
 therefore -PRON- tie up -PRON- bundle , but once outside the gate -PRON- could not   help be sorry to give up -PRON- good fortune and turn -PRON- back on the   city in which all have go so well for -PRON- . -PRON- come to the pond where -PRON-   have make the acquaintance of the duck . at that very moment the old one   whose young one -PRON- have spar be sit there by the shore , preen   -PRON- with -PRON- beak . -PRON- know -PRON- again instantly , and ask why -PRON- be   hang -PRON- head so . 
 " -PRON- will not be surprised when -PRON- hear what have happen to -PRON- , " reply   the tailor , and tell -PRON- -PRON- fate . 
 " if that be all , " say the duck , " -PRON- can help -PRON- . the crown fall into the   water , and -PRON- lie down below at the bottom . -PRON- will soon bring -PRON- up   again for -PRON- . in the meantime just spread out -PRON- handkerchief on the   bank . " 
 -PRON- dove down with -PRON- twelve young one , and in five minute -PRON- be up   again with the crown rest on -PRON- wing . the twelve young one be   swimming round about with -PRON- beak under -PRON- , help to carry   -PRON- . -PRON- swim to the shore and put the crown on the handkerchief . no one   can imagine how magnificent the crown be . when the sun shone on -PRON- , -PRON-   gleam like a hundred thousand carbuncle . the tailor tie -PRON-   handkerchief together by the four corner and carry -PRON- to the king , who   be full of joy , and hang a gold chain around the tailor 's neck . 
 when the shoemaker see that the one trick have fail , -PRON- contrive a   second , and go to the king and say , " -PRON- majesty , the tailor have   become insolent again . -PRON- boast that -PRON- can copy in wax the whole of the   royal palace , with everything that pertain to -PRON- , movable or immovable ,   inside and out . " 
 the king send for the tailor and order -PRON- to copy in wax the whole of   the royal palace , with everything that pertain to -PRON- , movable or   immovable , inside and out . and fail this , or if so much as one nail on   the wall be miss , -PRON- should be imprison underground for the rest of   -PRON- life . 
 the tailor think , " -PRON- get bad and bad . no one can endure this , " and   -PRON- throw -PRON- bundle on -PRON- back , and go forth . when -PRON- come to the   hollow   tree , -PRON- sit down and hang -PRON- head . the bee come fly out , and the   queen bee ask -PRON- if -PRON- have a stiff neck , since -PRON- hang -PRON- head so . 
 " oh no , " answer the tailor , " something quite different weigh -PRON- down , "   and -PRON- tell -PRON- what the king have demand of -PRON- . 
 the bee begin to buzz and hum amongst -PRON- , and the queen bee say ,   " just go home again , but come back tomorrow at this time , and bring a   large cloth with -PRON- , and then all will be well . " 
 so -PRON- turn back again , but the bee fly to the royal palace and   straight into -PRON- through the open window , creep into every corner , and   inspect everything most carefully . then -PRON- hurry back and model   the palace in wax so quickly that anyone look on would have think -PRON-   be grow before -PRON- eye . by the evening all be ready , and when the   tailor come the next morning , the whole splendid building be there , and   not   one nail in the wall or tile on the roof be miss . and at the same time   -PRON- be delicate and white as snow , and smell sweet as honey . the tailor   wrap -PRON- carefully in -PRON- cloth and take -PRON- to the king , who could not   admire -PRON- enough , place -PRON- in -PRON- large hall , and in return for -PRON-   present the tailor with a large stone house . 
 the shoemaker , however , do not give up , but go for the third time to   the king and say , " -PRON- majesty , the tailor have hear that no water will   spring up in the castle 's courtyard , but -PRON- have boast that -PRON- can create   a fountain in the middle of the courtyard as tall as a man and as clear as   crystal . " 
 then the king order the tailor to be bring before -PRON- and say , " if a   stream of water do not rise in -PRON- courtyard by tomorrow as -PRON- have   promise , in that very place the executioner shall make -PRON- short by a   head . " 
 the poor tailor do not take long to think about -PRON- , but hurry out to   the gate , and because this time -PRON- be a matter of life and death to -PRON- ,   tear roll down -PRON- face . 
 while -PRON- be thus sorrowfully go forth , the foal to which -PRON- have   formerly give -PRON- liberty , and which have now become a beautiful chestnut   horse , come leap towards -PRON- . " the time have come , " -PRON- say to the   tailor , " when i can repay -PRON- for -PRON- good deed . i already know what -PRON-   need , and -PRON- shall soon have help . climb on ; -PRON- back can carry two of   -PRON- . " 
 the tailor 's courage come back to -PRON- . -PRON- jump up in one bound , and the   horse go full speed into the city , and immediately to the castle 's   courtyard . -PRON- gallop as quick as lightning three time around -PRON- , the   third time fall down . at that instant there be a terrific clap of   thunder , a fragment of earth in the middle of the courtyard spring like a   cannonball into the air and over the castle . directly afterward a jet of   water rise as high as a man on horseback , and the water be as pure as   crystal , and the sunbeam begin to dance on -PRON- . when the king see this -PRON-   arise in amazement , and go and embrace the tailor in the sight of all   man . 
 but good fortune do not last long . the king have daughter aplenty , each   one more beautiful than the other , but -PRON- have no son . so the malicious   shoemaker go to the king a fourth time , and say , " -PRON- majesty , the   tailor have not give up -PRON- arrogance . -PRON- have now boast that if -PRON-   like , -PRON- could cause a son to be bring to -PRON- majesty through the air . " 
 the king summon the tailor and say , " if -PRON- cause a son to be bring   to -PRON- within nine day , -PRON- shall have -PRON- eldest daughter to wife . " 
 " the reward be indeed great , " think the little tailor . " one would   willingly do something for -PRON- , but the cherry grow too high for -PRON- . if i   climb for -PRON- , the branch will break beneath -PRON- , and i shall fall . " 
 -PRON- go home , seat -PRON- cross - legg on -PRON- worktable , and think   over what be to be do . " -PRON- can not be manage , " -PRON- cry at last . " i will   go away after all . i can not live in peace here . " 
 -PRON- tie up -PRON- bundle and hurry away to the gate . when -PRON- get to the   meadow , -PRON- perceive -PRON- old friend the stork , who be walk backwards   and forward like a philosopher . sometimes -PRON- stand still , look closely   at a frog , than finally swallow -PRON- down . the stork come to -PRON- and   greet   -PRON- . 
 " i see , " -PRON- begin , " that -PRON- have -PRON- pack on -PRON- back . why be -PRON-   leave town ? " 
 the tailor tell -PRON- what the king have require of -PRON- , and how -PRON- could   not perform -PRON- , and lament -PRON- misfortune . 
 " do n't let that turn -PRON- hair gray , " say the stork , " i will help -PRON- out   of -PRON- difficulty . for a long time now , i have be carry infant   child into the city , so this time , i can fetch a little prince out of   the well . go home and take -PRON- easy . nine day from now go to the royal   palace , and i will arrive there as well . " 
 the little tailor go home , and at the appoint time be at the castle .   not long afterward the stork fly up and tap at the window . the tailor   open -PRON- , and cousin longleg come in carefully and walk with solemn   step over the smooth marble pavement . in -PRON- beak -PRON- have a baby that be   as lovely as an angel , and who stretch out -PRON- little hand to the   queen . the stork lay -PRON- in -PRON- lap , and -PRON- caress -PRON- and kiss -PRON- ,   and be beside -PRON- with delight . before fly away , the stork take   -PRON- travel bag off -PRON- back and hand -PRON- to the queen . in -PRON-   there be little paper parcel with color sweet , and -PRON- be divide   amongst the little princess . the eld , however , receive none of -PRON- ,   but instead get the merry tailor for a husband . 
 " -PRON- seem to -PRON- , " -PRON- say , " that i have win the high prize . -PRON- mother   be right after all . -PRON- always say that whoever trust in god and have   only good luck can never fail . " 
 the shoemaker have to make the shoe in which the little tailor dance at   the wedding festival , after which -PRON- be command to quit the town for   ever . the road to the forest lead -PRON- to the gallow . wear out with anger ,   rage , and the heat of the day , -PRON- throw -PRON- down . when -PRON- have close   -PRON- eye and be about to sleep , the two crow fly down from the head of   the man who be hang there and peck -PRON- eye out . in -PRON- madness -PRON-   run into the forest and must have die there of hunger , for no one have   see -PRON- or hear of -PRON- again . 



 straw , coal , and bean 

 the straw say , " dear friend , where do -PRON- come from ? " 
 the coal answer , " i jump from the fireplace , to -PRON- good fortune . if   i have not force -PRON- way out , i surely would have die . i would have burn   to ash . " 
 the bean say , " i too save -PRON- skin . if the old woman have get -PRON-   into the pot i would have be cook to mush without mercy , just like -PRON-   comrade . " 
 " would -PRON- fate have be any good ? " say the straw . " the old woman   send all -PRON- brother up in fire and smoke . -PRON- grab sixty at once and   kill -PRON- . fortunately i slip through -PRON- finger . " 
 " what should -PRON- do now ? " ask the coal . 
 " because -PRON- have so fortunately escape death , " answer the bean , " i   think that -PRON- should join together as comrade . to prevent some new   misfortune from befall -PRON- here , let -PRON- together make -PRON- way to another   land . " 
 this proposal please the other two , and -PRON- set forth all together . 
 -PRON- soon come to a small brook , and because there be neither a bridge   nor a walkway there , -PRON- do not know how -PRON- would get across -PRON- . 
 then the straw have a good idea , and say , " i will lay -PRON- across -PRON- ,   and -PRON- can walk across -PRON- like on a bridge . " 
 so the straw stretch -PRON- from one bank to the other . the coal ,   who be a hot - headed fellow , step brashly onto the newly construct   bridge , but when -PRON- get to the middle and hear the water rush beneath   -PRON- , -PRON- take fright , stop , and do not dare to go any further . then the   straw catch fire , break into two piece , and fall into the brook . the   coal slide after -PRON- , hiss as -PRON- fall into the water , and give up the   ghost . 
 the bean who have cautiously stay behind on the bank have to laugh at   the event . -PRON- could not stop , and -PRON- laugh so fiercely that -PRON- burst .   now -PRON- too would have die , but fortunately a wandering tailor be there ,   rest near the brook . have a compassionate heart , -PRON- get out a needle   and thread and sew the bean back together . 
 the bean thank -PRON- most kindly . however , because -PRON- have use black   thread , since that time all bean have have a black seam . 

 the fisherman and -PRON- wife 

 " well , " say the man , " there be no need to say more . i can certainly let a   fish swim away who know how to talk . " 
 with that -PRON- put -PRON- back into the clear water , and the flounder   disappear to the bottom , leave a long trail of blood behind -PRON- . 
 then the fisherman get up and go home to -PRON- wife in the filthy shack . 
 " husband , " say the woman , " do not -PRON- catch anything today ? " 
 " no , " say the man . " i catch a flounder , but -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- be an   enchanted prince , so i let -PRON- swim away . " 
 " do n't -PRON- ask for anything first ? " say the woman . 
 " no , " say the man . " what should i have ask for ? " 
 " oh , " say the woman . " -PRON- be terrible live in this shack . -PRON- stink and   be filthy . -PRON- should have ask for a little cottage for -PRON- . go back and   call -PRON- . tell -PRON- that -PRON- want to have a little cottage . -PRON- will surely   give -PRON- to -PRON- . " 
 " oh , " say the man . " why should i go back there ? " 
 " look , " say the woman , " -PRON- do catch -PRON- , and then -PRON- let -PRON- swim   away . -PRON- will surely do this for -PRON- . go right now . " 
 the man do not want to go , but neither do -PRON- want to oppose -PRON- wife , so   -PRON- go back to the sea . 
 when -PRON- arrive there -PRON- be no longer clear , but yellow and green . -PRON-   stand there and say : 
 " oh , " say the man , " i do catch -PRON- , and now -PRON- wife say that i really   should have ask for something . -PRON- do not want to live in a filthy   shack any longer . -PRON- would like to have a cottage . " 
 " go home , " say the flounder . " -PRON- already have -PRON- . " 
 the man go home , and -PRON- wife be stand in the door of a cottage , and   -PRON- say to -PRON- , " come in . see , now be not this much good ? " 
 there be a little front yard , and a beautiful little parlor , and a   bedroom where -PRON- bed be stand , and a kitchen , and a dining room .   everything be beautifully furnish and supply with tin and brass   utensil , just as -PRON- should be . and outside there be a little yard with   chicken and duck and a garden with vegetable and fruit . 
 " look , " say the woman . " be not this nice ? " 
 " yes , " say the man . " this be quite enough . -PRON- can live here very well . " 
 " -PRON- will think about that , " say the woman . 
 then -PRON- eat something and go to bed . 
 everything go well for a week or two , and then the woman say , " listen ,   husband . this cottage be too small . the yard and the garden be too   little . the flounder could have give -PRON- a large house . i would like to   live in a large stone palace . go back to the flounder and tell -PRON- to give   -PRON- a palace . " 
 " oh , wife , " say the man , " the cottage be good enough . why would -PRON- want   to live in a palace ? " 
 " i know why , " say the woman . " now -PRON- just go . the flounder can do that . " 
 " now , wife , the flounder have just give -PRON- the cottage . i do not want to go   back so soon . -PRON- may make the flounder angry . " 
 " just go , " say the woman . " -PRON- can do -PRON- , and -PRON- will not mind do -PRON- . just   go . " 
 the man 's heart be heavy , and -PRON- do not want to go . -PRON- say to -PRON- ,   " this be not right , " but -PRON- go anyway . 
 when -PRON- arrive at the sea the water be purple and dark blue and gray and   dense , and no longer green and yellow . -PRON- stand there and say : 
 " oh , " say the man sadly , " -PRON- wife want to live in a stone palace . " 
 " go home . -PRON- be already stand before the door , " say the flounder . 
 then the man go -PRON- way , think -PRON- be go home , but when -PRON-   arrive , stand there be a large stone palace . -PRON- wife be stand on   the stairway , about to enter . 
 take -PRON- by the hand , -PRON- say , " come inside . " 
 -PRON- go inside with -PRON- . inside the palace there be a large front hallway   with a marble floor . numerous servant open up the large door for -PRON- .   the wall be all white and covered with beautiful tapestry . in the room   there be chair and table of pure gold . crystal chandelier hang from   the ceiling . the room and chamber all have carpet . food and the very   good wine overload the table until -PRON- almost collapse . outside the   house there be a large courtyard with the very good carriage and stall   for horse and cow . furthermore there be a magnificent garden with the   most beautiful flower and fine fruit tree and a pleasure forest a good   half mile long , with elk and deer and hare and everything that anyone   could possibly want . 
 " now , " say the woman , " be n't this nice ? " 
 " oh , yes " say the man . " this be quite enough . -PRON- can live in this   beautiful palace and be satisfied . " 
 " -PRON- will think about -PRON- , " say the woman . " let 's sleep on -PRON- . " and with that   -PRON- go to bed . 
 the next morning the woman wake up first . -PRON- be just daylight , and from   -PRON- bed -PRON- could see the magnificent landscape before -PRON- . -PRON- husband   be just start to stir when -PRON- poke -PRON- in the side with -PRON- elbow   and say , " husband , get up and look out the window . look , could not -PRON- be   king over all this land ? " 
 " oh , wife , " say the man , " why would -PRON- want to be king ? i do not want to   be king . " 
 " well , " say the woman , " even if -PRON- do not want to be king , i want to be   king . " 
 " oh , wife , " say the man , " why do -PRON- want to be king ? i do not want to   tell -PRON- that . " 
 " why not ? " say the woman , " go there immediately . i must be king . " 
 so the man , sadden because -PRON- wife want to be king , go back . 
 " this be not right , not right at all , " think the man . -PRON- do not want to   go , but -PRON- go anyway . 
 when -PRON- arrive at the sea -PRON- be dark gray , and the water heave up from   below and have a foul smell . -PRON- stand there and say : 
 " oh , " say the man , " -PRON- want to be king . " 
 " go home . -PRON- be already king , " say the flounder . 
 then the man go home , and when -PRON- arrive there , the palace have become   much large , with a tall tower and magnificent decoration . sentry stand   outside the door , and there be so many soldier , and drum , and   trumpet . when -PRON- go inside everything be of pure marble and gold with   velvet cover and large golden tassel . then the door to the great hall   open up , and there be the entire court . -PRON- wife be sit on a high   throne of gold and diamond . -PRON- be wear a large golden crown , and in   -PRON- hand be a scepter of pure gold and precious stone . on either side of   -PRON- there stand a line of maid - in - waiting , each one a head short than   the other . 
 " oh , wife , be -PRON- now king ? " 
 " yes , " -PRON- say , " now i be king . " 
 -PRON- stand and look at -PRON- , and after thus look at -PRON- for a while -PRON-   say , " wife , -PRON- be very nice that -PRON- be king . now -PRON- do not have to wish   for anything else . " 
 " no , husband , " -PRON- say , become restless . " time be on -PRON- hand . i can not   stand -PRON- any longer . go to the flounder . i be king , but now i must become   emperor . " 
 " oh , wife " say the man , " why do -PRON- want to become emperor ? " 
 " husband , " -PRON- say , " go to the flounder . i want to be emperor . " 
 " oh , wife , " say the man , " -PRON- can not make -PRON- emperor . i can not tell the   flounder to do that . there be only one emperor in the realm . the flounder   can not make -PRON- emperor . -PRON- can not do that . " 
 " what ! " say the woman . " i be king , and -PRON- be -PRON- husband . be -PRON- go ?   go there immediately . if -PRON- can make -PRON- king then -PRON- can make -PRON- emperor .   i want to be and have to be emperor . go there immediately . " 
 so -PRON- have to go . as -PRON- go on -PRON- way the frightened man think to   -PRON- , " this be not go to end well . to ask to be emperor be shameful .   the flounder be go to get tired of this . " 
 with that -PRON- arrive at the sea . the water be all black and dense and   boil up from within . a strong wind blow over -PRON- that curdle the   water . -PRON- stand there and say : 
 " oh , flounder , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- wife want to become emperor . " 
 " go home , " say the flounder . " -PRON- be already emperor . " 
 then the man go home , and when -PRON- arrive there , the entire palace be   make of polished marble with alabaster statue and golden decoration .   soldier be march outside the gate , blow trumpet and beat   tympani and drum . inside the house , baron and count and duke be   walk around like servant . -PRON- open the door for -PRON- , which be   make of pure gold . -PRON- go inside where -PRON- wife be sit on a throne   make of one piece of gold a good two mile high , and -PRON- be wear a   large golden crown that be three yard high , all set with diamond and   carbuncle . in the one hand -PRON- have a scepter , and in the other the   imperial orb . bodyguard be stand in two row at -PRON- side : each one   small than the other , begin with the large giant and end with   the little dwarf , who be no large than -PRON- little finger . many prince   and duke be stand in front of -PRON- . 
 the man go and stand among -PRON- and say , " wife , be -PRON- emperor now ? " 
 " yes , " -PRON- say , " i be emperor . " 
 -PRON- stand and look at -PRON- , and after thus look at -PRON- for a while , -PRON-   say , " wife , -PRON- be very nice that -PRON- be emperor . " 
 " husband , " -PRON- say . " why be -PRON- stand there ? now that i be emperor ,   and i want to become pope . " 
 " oh , wife ! " say the man . " what do -PRON- not want ? there be only one pope in   all christendom . -PRON- can not make -PRON- pope . " 
 " husband , " -PRON- say , " i want to become pope . go there immediately . i must   become pope this very day . " 
 " no , wife , " -PRON- say , " i can not tell -PRON- that . -PRON- will come to no good .   that be too much . the flounder can not make -PRON- pope . " 
 " husband , what nonsense ! " say the woman . " if -PRON- can make -PRON- emperor , then   -PRON- can make -PRON- pope as well . go there immediately . i be emperor , and -PRON-   be -PRON- husband . be -PRON- go ? " 
 then the frightened man go . -PRON- feel sick all over , and -PRON- knee and   leg be shake , and the wind be blow over the land , and cloud fly   by as the darkness of evening fall . leaf blow from the tree , and the   water roar and boil as -PRON- crash onto the shore . in the distance -PRON-   could see ship , shoot distress signal as -PRON- toss and turn on   the wave . there be a little blue in the middle of the sky , but on all   side -PRON- have turn red , as in a terrible lightning storm . full of despair   -PRON- stand there and say : 
 " oh , " say the man , " -PRON- want to become pope . " 
 " go home , " say the flounder . " -PRON- be already pope . " 
 then -PRON- go home , and when -PRON- arrive there , there be a large church   surround by nothing but palace . -PRON- force -PRON- way through the crowd .   inside everything be illuminate with thousand and thousand of light ,   and -PRON- wife be clothe in pure gold and sit on a much high throne .   -PRON- be wear three large golden crown . -PRON- be surround with   church - like splendor , and at -PRON- side there be two bank of candle .   the large be as thick and as tall as the large tower , down to the   small kitchen candle . and all the emperor and king be kneel   before -PRON- kiss -PRON- slipper . 
 " wife , " say the man , give -PRON- a good look , " be -PRON- pope now ? " 
 " yes , " -PRON- say , " i be pope . " 
 then -PRON- stand there look at -PRON- , and -PRON- be as if -PRON- be look into   the bright sun . after -PRON- have look at -PRON- for a while -PRON- say , " wife , -PRON-   be good that -PRON- be pope ! " 
 -PRON- stand there as stiff as a tree , neither stir nor move . 
 then -PRON- say , " wife , be satisfied now that -PRON- be pope . there be nothing   else that -PRON- can become . " 
 " i have to think about that , " say the woman . 
 then -PRON- both go to bed , but -PRON- be not satisfied . -PRON- desire would   not let -PRON- sleep . -PRON- keep think what -PRON- want to become next . 
 the man sleep well and soundly , for -PRON- have run about a lot during the day ,   but the woman could not sleep at all , but toss and turn from one side   to the other all night long , always think about what -PRON- could become ,   but -PRON- could not think of anything . 
 then the sun be about to rise , and when -PRON- see the early light of dawn   -PRON- sit up in bed and watch through the window as the sun come up . 
 " aha , " -PRON- think . " could not i cause the sun and the moon to rise ? " 
 " husband , " -PRON- say , poke -PRON- in the rib with -PRON- elbow , " wake up and   go back to the flounder . i want to become like god . " 
 the man , who be still mostly asleep , be so startled that -PRON- fall out of   bed . -PRON- think that -PRON- have misunderstand -PRON- , so , rub -PRON- eye , -PRON-   say , " wife , what do -PRON- say ? " 
 " husband , " -PRON- say , " i can not stand -PRON- when i see the sun and the moon   rise , and i can not cause -PRON- to do so . i will not have a single hour of   peace until i -PRON- can cause -PRON- to rise . " 
 -PRON- look at -PRON- so gruesomely that -PRON- shudder . 
 " go there immediately . i want to become like god . " 
 " oh , wife , " say the man , fall on -PRON- knee before -PRON- , " the flounder   can not do that . -PRON- can make -PRON- emperor and pope , but i beg -PRON- , be   satisfied and remain pope . " 
 anger fall over -PRON- . -PRON- hair fly wildly about -PRON- head . tear open -PRON-   bodice -PRON- kick -PRON- with -PRON- foot and shout , " i can not stand -PRON- ! i   can not stand -PRON- any longer ! go there immediately ! " 
 -PRON- put on -PRON- trouser and run off like a madman . 
 outside such a storm be rag that -PRON- could hardly stand on -PRON- foot .   house and tree be blow over . the mountain be shake , and   boulder be roll from the cliff into the sea . the sky be as black   as pitch . there be thunder and lightning . in the sea there be great   black wave as high as church tower and mountain , all cap with crown   of white foam . 
 " oh , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- want to become like god . " 
 " go home . -PRON- be sit in -PRON- filthy shack again . " 
 and -PRON- be sit there even today . 


 the brave little tailor 

 the woman carry -PRON- heavy basket up the three flight of stair to the   tailor , who have -PRON-    unpack all of -PRON- jar . -PRON- examine -PRON- , pick each one up and hold   -PRON- to -PRON- nose . finally    -PRON- say , " this jam look good to -PRON- . weigh out four ounce for -PRON- , even if   -PRON- come to a quarter    pound . " 
 the woman , who have hop to make a good sale , give -PRON- what -PRON- ask for ,   then go away    angry and grumbling . 
 " may god bless this jam to give -PRON- health and strength , " say the little   tailor . then take a loaf    of bread from -PRON- cupboard , -PRON- cut -PRON- a large slice and spread -PRON-   with the jam . " that be not    go to taste bad , " -PRON- say , " but i will finish the jacket before i bite   into -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- lay the bread aside and continue -PRON- sewing , happily make -PRON-   stitch large and large .    meanwhile the smell of the sweet jam rise to the wall where a large number   of fly be sit .    attract by the smell , a swarm of -PRON- settle onto the bread . 
 " hey ! who invite -PRON- ? " say the little tailor , drive away the unbidden   guest . however , the    fly , who do not understand german , would not be turn away , and -PRON-   come back in    ever - increase number . finally , lose -PRON- temper , -PRON- reach for a   piece of cloth and shout ,    " wait , now -PRON- be go to give -PRON- to -PRON- ! " then hit at -PRON- without mercy .   when -PRON- back off and    count , there be no few than seven of -PRON- lie dead before -PRON- ,   with -PRON- leg stretch    out . 
 " be not -PRON- someone ? " -PRON- say to -PRON- , surprised at -PRON- own bravery .   the whole town shall    hear about this . " -PRON- hastily cut out a banner for -PRON- , then   embroider on -PRON- with large letter ,    seven with one blow . " the town ? " -PRON- say further . " the whole world   shall hear about    this ! " and -PRON- heart jump for joy like a lamb 's tail . 
 the tailor tie the banner around -PRON- body and set forth into the world ,   for -PRON- think that -PRON-    workshop be too small for such bravery . before leave -PRON- look about   -PRON- house for    something that -PRON- could take with -PRON- . find nothing but a piece of old   cheese , -PRON- put that into    -PRON- pocket . outside the town gate -PRON- find a bird that be catch in a   bush . -PRON- go into -PRON-    pocket with the cheese . 
 -PRON- bravely take to the road , and be light and agile -PRON- do not grow   weary . the road lead -PRON-    up a mountain , and when -PRON- reach the top a huge giant be sit there ,   look around    contentedly . 
 the little tailor go up to -PRON- cheerfully and say , " good day , comrade .   be -PRON- just sit here    look at the wide world ? i be on -PRON- way out there to prove -PRON- . do   -PRON- want to come    with -PRON- ? " 
 the giant look at the tailor with contempt , say , " -PRON- wretch ! -PRON-   miserable fellow ! " 
 " -PRON- do not say ! " answer the little tailor . unbutton -PRON- coat , -PRON-   show the banner to the    giant . " -PRON- can read what kind of man i be . " 
 the giant read seven with one blow , and think that the tailor   have kill seven man , -PRON-    gain some respect for the little fellow . but -PRON- do want to put -PRON- to   the test , so -PRON- pick up a    stone and squeeze -PRON- with -PRON- hand until water drip from -PRON- . 
 " do what i just do , " say the giant , " if -PRON- have the strength . " 
 " be that all ? " say the little tailor . " that be child 's play for someone   like -PRON- . " reach into -PRON-    pocket -PRON- pull out the soft cheese and squeeze -PRON- until liquid run from   -PRON- . " that be even    good , be not -PRON- ? " -PRON- say . 
 the giant do not know what to say , for -PRON- do not believe the little man .   then the giant pick    up a stone and throw -PRON- so high that -PRON- could scarcely be see . " now , -PRON-   little dwarf , do that . " 
 " a good throw , " say the tailor , " but the stone do fall back to earth .   -PRON- will throw one for -PRON- that    will not come back . " -PRON- reach into -PRON- pocket , pull out the bird , and   throw -PRON- into the air .    happy to be free , the bird fly up and away , and do not come back . " how   do -PRON- like that ,    comrade ? " ask the tailor . 
 " -PRON- can throw well enough , " say the giant , but now let 's see if -PRON- be   able to carry anything    proper . " -PRON- lead the little tailor to a mighty oak tree that have be cut   down and be lie on the    ground . -PRON- say , " if -PRON- be strong enough , then help -PRON- carry this tree   out of the wood . " 
 " gladly , " answer the little man . " -PRON- take the trunk on -PRON- shoulder ,   and i will carry the    branch and twig . after all , -PRON- be the heavy . " 
 the giant lift the trunk onto -PRON- shoulder , but the tailor sit down on a   branch , and the giant ,    who could not see behind -PRON- , have to drag long the entire tree , with   the little tailor sit on    top . cheerful and in good spirit , -PRON- whistle the song " there be three   tailor who ride    out to the gate , " as though carry a tree be child 's play . 
 the giant , after drag the heavy load a little way , could not go any   further , and -PRON- call out ,    " listen , i have to drop the tree . " 
 the tailor jump down agilely , take hold of the tree with both arm , as   though -PRON- have be    carry -PRON- , and say to the giant , " -PRON- be such a big fellow , and -PRON-   can not even carry a tree . " 
 -PRON- walk on together until -PRON- come to a cherry tree . the giant take   hold of the treetop    where the ripe fruit be hang , bent -PRON- down , and put -PRON- into the   tailor 's hand , invite -PRON- to    eat . however , the little tailor be much too weak to hold the tree , and   when the giant let go , the    tree spring upward , throw the tailor into the air . when -PRON- fall back to   earth , without injury ,    the giant say , " what ? -PRON- do not have enough strength to hold that little   switch ? " 
 " there be no lack of strength , " answer the little tailor . " do -PRON- think   that that would be a    problem for someone who kill seven with one blow ? i jump over the tree   because hunter    be shoot down there in the brush . jump over -PRON- -PRON- , if -PRON- can . " 
 the giant make the attempt , but could not clear the tree and get stick in   the branch . so the    little tailor keep the upper hand here as well . 
 the giant say , " if -PRON- be such a brave fellow , then come with -PRON- to -PRON-   cave and spend the    night with -PRON- . " 
 the little tailor agree and follow -PRON- . when -PRON- reach the cave ,   other giant be sit    there by a fire . each one have a roasted sheep in -PRON- hand and be eat   from -PRON- . the little tailor    look around and think , " -PRON- be a lot more roomy here than in -PRON-   workshop . 
 the giant show -PRON- a bed and tell -PRON- to lie down and go to sleep .   however , the little tailor    find the bed too large , so instead of lie there -PRON- creep into a corner .   at midnight the giant    think that the little tailor be fast asleep , so -PRON- get up , take a large   iron bar , and with a single    blow smash the bed in two . -PRON- think -PRON- have put an end to the   grasshopper . 
 early the next morning the giant go into the wood , have completely   forget the little tailor ,    when -PRON- suddenly approach -PRON- cheerfully and boldly . fear that -PRON-   would strike -PRON- all    dead , the terrified giant run away in haste . 
 the little tailor continue on -PRON- way , always follow -PRON- pointed nose .   after wander a long    time , -PRON- come to the courtyard of a royal palace , and be tired , -PRON- lie   down in the grass and    fall asleep . while -PRON- be lie there people come and look at -PRON- from   all side , and -PRON- read    -PRON- banner , seven with one blow . 
 " oh , " -PRON- say , " what be this great war hero do here in the midst of   peace ? -PRON- must be a    powerful lord . " 
 -PRON- go and report -PRON- to the king , think that if war be to break   out , -PRON- would be an    important and useful man who at any price should not be allow to go   elsewhere . the king be    pleased with this advice , and -PRON- send one of -PRON- courtier to the little   tailor to offer -PRON- a position    in the army , as soon as -PRON- wake up . 
 the messenger stand by the sleeper and wait until -PRON- stretch -PRON- arm   and leg and open    -PRON- eye , and then -PRON- deliver -PRON- offer . 
 " that be precisely why i come here , " answer the little tailor . " i be   ready to enter the king 's    service . " thus -PRON- be receive with honor and give a special place to   live . 
 however , the soldier be oppose to the little tailor , and wish that   -PRON- be a thousand mile    away . " what will happen , " -PRON- say among -PRON- , " if -PRON- quarrel with   -PRON- , and -PRON- strike    out against -PRON- ? seven of -PRON- will fall with each blow . people like -PRON- can not   stand up to that . " 
 so -PRON- come to a decision , and all together -PRON- go to the king and   ask to be release . " -PRON-    be not make , " -PRON- say , " to stand up to a man who kill seven with one   blow . " 
 the king be sad that -PRON- be go to lose all -PRON- faithful servant   because of one man , and -PRON-    wish that -PRON- have never see -PRON- . -PRON- would like to be rid of -PRON- , but -PRON-   do not dare dismiss    -PRON- , because -PRON- be afraid that -PRON- would kill -PRON- and all -PRON- people and   then set -PRON- on the    royal throne . 
 -PRON- think long and hard , and finally find an answer . -PRON- send a message   to the little tailor ,    inform -PRON- that because -PRON- be such a great war hero -PRON- would make -PRON-   an offer . in a forest    in -PRON- country there live two giant who be cause great damage with   robbery , murder ,    pillage , and arson . no one could approach -PRON- without place -PRON- in   mortal danger . if -PRON-    could conquer and kill these two giant , the king would give -PRON- -PRON- only   daughter to wife and    half -PRON- kingdom for a dowry . furthermore , a hundred horseman would go   with -PRON- for support . 
 " that be something for a man like -PRON- , " think the little tailor . " -PRON- be   not every day that someone be    offer a beautiful princess and half a kingdom . " 
 " yes , " -PRON- reply . " i shall conquer the giant , but i do not need the   hundred horseman . anyone    who can strike down seven with one blow have no cause to be afraid of two . " 
 the little tailor set forth , and the hundred horseman follow -PRON- . at the   edge of the forest , -PRON-    say to -PRON- , " -PRON- stay here . i shall take care of the giant -PRON- . " 
 leap into the wood , -PRON- look to the left and to the right . -PRON- soon   see the two giant . -PRON-    be lie asleep under a tree , snore until the branch bend up and   down . the little tailor , not    lazy , fill both pocket with stone and climb the tree . once in the   middle of the tree , -PRON- slide    out on a branch until -PRON- be seat right above the sleeper . then -PRON-   drop one stone after    another onto one of the giant 's chest . for a long time the giant do not   feel anything , but finally -PRON-    wake up , shove -PRON- companion , and say , " why be -PRON- hit -PRON- ? " 
 " -PRON- be dream , " say the other one . " i be not hit -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- fall asleep again , and the tailor throw a stone at the second one . 
 " what be this ? " say the other one . " why be -PRON- throw thing at -PRON- ? " 
 " i be not throw anything at -PRON- , " answer the first one , grumble . 
 -PRON- quarrel for a while , but because -PRON- be tired , -PRON- make peace ,   and -PRON- both close    -PRON- eye again . then the little tailor begin -PRON- game again . choose   -PRON- large stone , -PRON- throw -PRON-    at the first giant with all -PRON- strength , hit -PRON- in the chest . 
 " that be too mean ! " shout the giant , then jump up like a madman and   push -PRON- companion    against the tree , until -PRON- shake . the other one pay -PRON- back in kind , and   -PRON- become so angry    that -PRON- pull up tree and strike at each other until finally , at the   same time , -PRON- both fall to    the ground dead . 
 then the little tailor jump down . " -PRON- be fortunate , " -PRON- say , " that -PRON-   do not pull up the tree    where i be sit , or i would have have to jump into another one like a   squirrel . but people like    -PRON- be nimble . " 
 draw -PRON- sword , -PRON- give each one a few good blow to the chest , then   go back to the    horseman and say , " the work be do . i finish off both of -PRON- , but -PRON-   be hard . in -PRON- need    -PRON- pull up tree to defend -PRON- . but -PRON- do not help -PRON- , not   against someone like -PRON-    who kill seven with one blow . " 
 " be -PRON- not wound ? " ask the horseman . 
 " everything be all right , " answer the tailor . " -PRON- do not so much as   bend one of -PRON- hair . " 
 not want to believe -PRON- , the horeseman ride into the wood . there -PRON-   find the giant    swimming in -PRON- own blood , and all around lie the uprooted tree . 
 the little tailor ask the king for the promised reward , but the latter   regret the promise , and    once again -PRON- begin to think of a way to get the hero off -PRON- neck .   " before -PRON- receive -PRON-    daughter and half the kingdom , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- must fulfill another heroic   deed . in the wood there    be a unicorn that be cause much damage . first -PRON- must capture -PRON- . 
 " i be even less afraid of a unicorn than i be of two giant . seven with   one blow , that be -PRON-    thing . " 
 take a rope and an ax , -PRON- go into the wood . once again -PRON- tell those   who go with -PRON-    to wait behind . -PRON- do not have to look very long . the unicorn soon   appear , leap toward    the tailor as if -PRON- want to spear -PRON- at once . 
 " gently , gently , " say the tailor . " not so fast . " -PRON- stop , wait until   the animal be very near ,    then jump agilely behind a tree . the unicorn run with all -PRON- might into   the tree , stick -PRON- horn    so tightly into the trunk that -PRON- do not have enough strength to pull -PRON-   out again , and thus -PRON- be    capture . 
 " now i have the little bird , " say the tailor , come out from behind the   tree . first -PRON- tie the rope    around the unicorn 's neck , then -PRON- cut the horn out of the tree with the   ax . when everything be    ready , -PRON- lead the animal away and bring -PRON- to the king . 
 the king still do not want to give -PRON- the promised reward and present   a third requirement .    before the wedding , the tailor be to capture a wild boar that be cause   great damage in the    wood . huntsman be to assist -PRON- . 
 " gladly , " say the tailor . " that be child 's play . " 
 -PRON- do not take the huntsman into wood with -PRON- , and -PRON- be glad about   that , for -PRON- have    encounter the wild boar before and have no desire to do so again . 
 when the boar see the tailor -PRON- run toward -PRON- with foam mouth and   grind tooth , want    to throw -PRON- to the ground . but the nimble hero run into a nearby chapel ,   then with one leap    jump back out through a window . the boar run in after -PRON- , but the   tailor run around outside    and slam the door . thus the furious animal be capture , for -PRON- be too   heavy and clumsy to    jump out the window . the little tailor call to the huntsman . -PRON- have to   see the capture boar    with -PRON- own eye . 
 the hero report to the king , who now -- whether -PRON- want to or not --   have to keep -PRON-    promise and give -PRON- -PRON- daughter and half the kingdom . if -PRON- have know   that -PRON- be not a war    hero , but rather a little tailor stand before -PRON- , -PRON- would have be   even more painful for -PRON- .    the wedding be thus hold with great ceremony but little joy , and a king   be make from a tailor . 
 some time later the young queen hear in the night how -PRON- husband say in   a dream , " boy ,    make the jacket for -PRON- , and patch the trouser , or i will hit -PRON- across   -PRON- ear with a    yardstick . " thus -PRON- determine where the young lord have come from . the   next morning -PRON-    bring -PRON- complaint to -PRON- father , ask -PRON- to help -PRON- get rid of the   man , who be nothing    more than a tailor . 
 the king comfort -PRON- , say , " tonight leave -PRON- bedroom door unlock .   -PRON- servant will    stand outside , and after -PRON- fall asleep -PRON- will go inside , bind -PRON- ,   and carry -PRON- to a ship that    will take -PRON- far away from here . " 
 the wife be satisfied with this . however , the king 's squire , who have a   liking for the young lord ,    hear everything and reveal the whole plot to -PRON- . 
 " i 'll put a stop to that , " say the little tailor . that evening -PRON- go to   bed with -PRON- wife at the usual    time . when -PRON- think -PRON- be asleep -PRON- get up , open the door , and then   go back to bed .    the little tailor , who be only pretend to be asleep , begin cry out   with a clear voice , " boy ,    make the jacket for -PRON- , and patch the trouser , or i will hit -PRON- across   -PRON- ear with a    yardstick ! i have strike down seven with one blow , kill two giant , lead   away a unicorn , and    capture a wild boar , and i be suppose to be afraid of those who be   stand just outside the    bedroom ! " 
 when those stand outside hear the tailor say this , -PRON- be so   overcome with fear that -PRON-    run away , as though the wild horde be behind -PRON- . none of -PRON- dare to   approach -PRON- ever    again . 
 thus the little tailor be a king , and -PRON- remain a king as long as -PRON-   live . 

 cinderella 

 the girl go out to -PRON- mother 's grave every day and weep , and -PRON-   remain pious and good . when winter come the snow spread a white cloth   over the grave , and when the spring sun have remove -PRON- again , the man take   -PRON- another wife . 
 this wife bring two daughter into the house with -PRON- . -PRON- be   beautiful , with fair face , but evil and dark heart . time soon grow very   bad for the poor stepchild . 
 " why should that stupid goose sit in the parlor with -PRON- ? " -PRON- say .   " if -PRON- want to eat bread , then -PRON- will have to earn -PRON- . out with this   kitchen maid ! " 
 -PRON- take -PRON- beautiful clothe away from -PRON- , dress -PRON- in an old   gray smock , and give -PRON- wooden shoe . " just look at the proud princess !   how deck out -PRON- be ! " -PRON- shout and laugh as -PRON- lead -PRON- into the   kitchen . 
 there -PRON- have to do hard work from morning until evening , get up before   daybreak , carry water , make the fire , cook , and wash . besides this , the   sister do everything imaginable to hurt -PRON- . -PRON- make fun of -PRON- ,   scatter pea and lentil into the ash for -PRON- , so that -PRON- have to sit   and pick -PRON- out again . in the evening when -PRON- have work -PRON- weary ,   there be no bed for -PRON- . instead -PRON- have to sleep by the hearth in the   ash . and because -PRON- always look dusty and dirty , -PRON- call -PRON-   cinderella . 
 one day -PRON- happen that the father be go to the fair , and -PRON- ask   -PRON- two stepdaughter what -PRON- should bring back for -PRON- . 
 " beautiful dress , " say the one . 
 " pearl and jewel , " say the other . 
 " and -PRON- , cinderella , " -PRON- say , " what do -PRON- want ? " 
 " father , break off for -PRON- the first twig that brush against -PRON- hat   on -PRON- way home . " 
 so -PRON- buy beautiful dress , pearl , and jewel for -PRON- two   stepdaughter . on -PRON- way home , as -PRON- be rid through a green thicket ,   a hazel twig brush against -PRON- and knock off -PRON- hat . then -PRON- break   off the twig and take -PRON- with -PRON- . arrive home , -PRON- give -PRON-   stepdaughter the thing that -PRON- have ask for , and -PRON- give cinderella   the twig from the hazel bush . 
 cinderella thank -PRON- , go to -PRON- mother 's grave , and plant the   branch on -PRON- , and -PRON- weep so much that -PRON- tear fall upon -PRON- and water   -PRON- . -PRON- grow and become a beautiful tree . 
 cinderella go to this tree three time every day , and beneath -PRON- -PRON-   weep and pray . a white bird come to the tree every time , and whenever   -PRON- express a wish , the bird would throw down to -PRON- what -PRON- have wish   for . 
 now -PRON- happen that the king proclaim a festival that be to last   three day . all the beautiful young girl in the land be invite , so   that -PRON- son could select a bride for -PRON- . when the two stepsister   hear that -PRON- too have be invite , -PRON- be in high spirit . 
 -PRON- call cinderella , say , " comb -PRON- hair for -PRON- . brush -PRON- shoe   and fasten -PRON- buckle . -PRON- be go to the festival at the king 's   castle . " 
 cinderella obey , but weep , because -PRON- too would have like to go to   the dance with -PRON- . -PRON- beg -PRON- stepmother to allow -PRON- to go . 
 " -PRON- , cinderella ? " -PRON- say . " -PRON- , all cover with dust and dirt , and   -PRON- want to go to the festival ? . -PRON- have neither clothe nor shoe , and   yet -PRON- want to dance ! " 
 however , because cinderella keep ask , the stepmother finally say ,   " i have scatter a bowl of lentil into the ash for -PRON- . if -PRON- can   pick -PRON- out again in two hour , then -PRON- may go with -PRON- . " 
 the girl go through the back door into the garden , and call out ,   " -PRON- tame pigeon , -PRON- turtledove , and all -PRON- bird beneath the sky ,   come and help -PRON- to gather : 
 the girl take the bowl to -PRON- stepmother , and be happy , think that   now -PRON- would be allow to go to the festival with -PRON- . 
 but the stepmother say , " no , cinderella , -PRON- have no clothe , and -PRON-   do not know how to dance . everyone would only laugh at -PRON- . " 
 cinderella begin to cry , and then the stepmother say , " -PRON- may go if   -PRON- be able to pick two bowl of lentil out of the ash for -PRON- in one   hour , " think to -PRON- , " -PRON- will never be able to do that . " 
 the girl go through the back door into the garden , and call out ,   " -PRON- tame pigeon , -PRON- turtledove , and all -PRON- bird beneath the sky ,   come and help -PRON- to gather : 
 the girl take the bowl to -PRON- stepmother , and be happy , think that   now -PRON- would be allow to go to the festival with -PRON- . 
 but the stepmother say , " -PRON- be no use . -PRON- be not come with -PRON- , for   -PRON- have no clothe , and -PRON- do not know how to dance . -PRON- would be ashamed   of -PRON- . " with this -PRON- turn -PRON- back on cinderella , and hurry away   with -PRON- two proud daughter . 
 now that no one else be at home , cinderella go to -PRON- mother 's grave   beneath the hazel tree , and cry out : 
 -PRON- stepsister and -PRON- stepmother do not recognize -PRON- . -PRON- think   -PRON- must be a foreign princess , for -PRON- look so beautiful in the golden   dress . -PRON- never once think -PRON- be cinderella , for -PRON- think that   -PRON- be sit at home in the dirt , look for lentil in the ash . 
 the prince approach -PRON- , take -PRON- by the hand , and dance with -PRON- .   furthermore , -PRON- would dance with no one else . -PRON- never let go of -PRON- hand ,   and whenever anyone else come and ask -PRON- to dance , -PRON- would say , " -PRON-   be -PRON- dance partner . " 
 -PRON- dance until evening , and then -PRON- want to go home . but the   prince say , " i will go along and escort -PRON- , " for -PRON- want to see to   whom the beautiful girl belong . however , -PRON- elude -PRON- and jump into   the pigeon coop . the prince wait until -PRON- father come , and then -PRON- tell   -PRON- that the unknown girl have jump into the pigeon coop . 
 the old man think , " could -PRON- be cinderella ? " 
 -PRON- have -PRON- bring -PRON- an ax and a pick so that -PRON- could break the   pigeon coop apart , but no one be inside . when -PRON- get home cinderella   be lie in the ash , dress in -PRON- dirty clothe . a dim little   oil - lamp be burn in the fireplace . cinderella have quickly jump down   from the back of the pigeon coop and have run to the hazel tree . there -PRON-   have take off -PRON- beautiful clothe and lay -PRON- on the grave , and the   bird have take -PRON- away again . then , dress in -PRON- gray smock , -PRON- have   return to the ash in the kitchen . 
 the next day when the festival begin anew , and -PRON- parent and -PRON-   stepsister have go again , cinderella go to the hazel tree and say : 
 when evening come -PRON- want to leave , and the prince follow -PRON- ,   want to see into which house -PRON- go . but -PRON- run away from -PRON- and   into the garden behind the house . a beautiful tall tree stand there , on   which hang the most magnificent pear . -PRON- climb as nimbly as a squirrel   into the branch , and the prince do not know where -PRON- have go . -PRON-   wait until -PRON- father come , then say to -PRON- , " the unknown girl have   elude -PRON- , and i believe -PRON- have climb up the pear tree . 
 the father think , " could -PRON- be cinderella ? " -PRON- have an ax bring to   -PRON- and cut down the tree , but no one be in -PRON- . when -PRON- come to the   kitchen , cinderella be lie there in the ash as usual , for -PRON- have   jump down from the other side of the tree , have take the beautiful dress   back to the bird in the hazel tree , and have put on -PRON- gray smock . 
 on the third day , when -PRON- parent and sister have go away ,   cinderella go again to -PRON- mother 's grave and say to the tree : 
 when evening come cinderella want to leave , and the prince try to   escort -PRON- , but -PRON- run away from -PRON- so quickly that -PRON- could not follow   -PRON- . the prince , however , have set a trap . -PRON- have have the entire stairway   smear with pitch . when -PRON- run down the stair , -PRON- left slipper stick   in the pitch . the prince pick -PRON- up . -PRON- be small and dainty , and of   pure gold . 
 the next morning , -PRON- go with -PRON- to the man , and say to -PRON- , " no one   shall be -PRON- wife except for the one whose foot fit this golden shoe . " 
 the two sister be happy to hear this , for -PRON- have pretty foot . with   -PRON- mother stand by , the old one take the shoe into -PRON- bedroom to   try -PRON- on . -PRON- could not get -PRON- big toe into -PRON- , for the shoe be too   small for -PRON- . then -PRON- mother give -PRON- a knife and say , " cut off -PRON-   toe . when -PRON- be queen -PRON- will no longer have to go on foot . " 
 the girl cut off -PRON- toe , force -PRON- foot into the shoe , swallow the   pain , and go out to the prince . -PRON- take -PRON- on -PRON- horse as -PRON- bride   and ride away with -PRON- . however , -PRON- have to ride past the grave , and   there , on the hazel tree , sit the two pigeon , cry out : 
 then -PRON- mother give -PRON- a knife , and say , " cut a piece off -PRON- heel .   when -PRON- be queen -PRON- will no longer have to go on foot . " 
 the girl cut a piece off -PRON- heel , force -PRON- foot into the shoe ,   swallow the pain , and go out to the prince . -PRON- take -PRON- on -PRON- horse   as -PRON- bride and ride away with -PRON- . when -PRON- pass the hazel tree , the   two pigeon be sit in -PRON- , and -PRON- cry out : 
 " this be not the right one , either , " -PRON- say . " do n't -PRON- have another   daughter ? " 
 " no , " say the man . " there be only a deformed little cinderella from -PRON-   first wife , but -PRON- can not possibly be the bride . " 
 the prince tell -PRON- to send -PRON- to -PRON- , but the mother answer , " oh ,   no , -PRON- be much too dirty . -PRON- can not be see . " 
 but the prince insist on -PRON- , and -PRON- have to call cinderella . -PRON-   first wash -PRON- hand and face clean , and then go and bow down before   the prince , who give -PRON- the golden shoe . -PRON- sit down on a stool , pull   -PRON- foot out of the heavy wooden shoe , and put -PRON- into the slipper , and -PRON-   fit -PRON- perfectly . 
 when -PRON- stand up the prince look into -PRON- face , and -PRON- recognize   the beautiful girl who have dance with -PRON- . -PRON- cry out , " -PRON- be -PRON- true   bride . " 
 the stepmother and the two sister be horrified and turn pale with   anger . the prince , however , take cinderella onto -PRON- horse and ride away   with -PRON- . as -PRON- pass by the hazel tree , the two white pigeon cry   out : 
 when the wedding with the prince be to be hold , the two false sister   come , want to gain favor with cinderella and to share -PRON- good fortune .   when the bridal couple walk into the church , the old sister walk on   -PRON- right side and the young on -PRON- left side , and the pigeon   peck out one eye from each of -PRON- . afterwards , as -PRON- come out of the   church , the old one be on the left side , and the young one on the   right side , and then the pigeon peck out the other eye from each of   -PRON- . and thus , for -PRON- wickedness and falsehood , -PRON- be punish   with blindness as long as -PRON- live . 

 the riddle 

 -PRON- speak to -PRON- , say , " dear child , can -PRON- servant and i find shelter   for the night in this little house ? " 
 " oh , yes , " say the girl in a sad voice , " -PRON- certainly can , but i do   not advise -PRON- to do so . do not go inside . " 
 " why not ? " ask the prince . 
 the girl sigh and say , " -PRON- stepmother practice evil art , and -PRON-   do not like stranger . " 
 then -PRON- realize that -PRON- have come to a witch 's house , but because -PRON-   be dark , and -PRON- could go no further , -PRON- enter . in any event , -PRON- be not   afraid . 
 the old woman be sit in an armchair by the fire . -PRON- look at the   stranger with -PRON- red eye . " good evening , " -PRON- croak , pretend to be   quite friendly . " sit down and rest . " 
 -PRON- blow into the coal on which -PRON- be cook something in a small   pot . the daughter warn the two to be cautious , to eat nothing , and to   drink nothing , for the old woman brew evil drink . -PRON- sleep soundly   until early morning . 
 while -PRON- be get ready to leave , and the prince have already   mount -PRON- horse , the old woman say , " wait a moment . let -PRON- give -PRON- a   farewell drink . " 
 while -PRON- be get -PRON- the prince ride away , and the servant , who have   to tighten -PRON- saddle , be there alone when the wicked witch come with the   drink . 
 " take this to -PRON- master , " -PRON- say . 
 but that instant the glass break and the poison spill onto the horse .   -PRON- be so strong that the animal immediately fall down dead . the servant   run after -PRON- master and tell -PRON- what have happen . however , -PRON- do not   want to abandon -PRON- saddle , so -PRON- run back to get -PRON- . when -PRON- reach the   dead horse a raven be already sit on -PRON- eat from -PRON- . 
 " who know if -PRON- shall find anything good today ? " say the servant .   so -PRON- kill the raven and take -PRON- with -PRON- . 
 -PRON- wander in the wood the whole day , but could not find -PRON- way   out . as night fall -PRON- find an inn and go inside . the servant give the   raven to the innkeeper to prepare for supper . 
 now -PRON- have stumble into a den of murderer , and twelve murderer   arrive in the dark , intend to kill the stranger and rob -PRON- . but   before do so -PRON- sit down to supper , and the innkeeper and the witch   sit down with -PRON- . together -PRON- eat a dish of soup into which -PRON- have   cut up the raven meat . -PRON- have scarcely swallow a few bite when -PRON-   all fall down dead , for the raven have pass on to -PRON- the poison from   the horsemeat . 
 now there be no one leave in the house but the innkeeper 's daughter .   -PRON- mean well and have not take part in -PRON- godless deed . -PRON- open   all the door for the stranger and show -PRON- pile of treasure . however ,   the prince say that -PRON- should keep everything . -PRON- want none of -PRON- , and   with -PRON- servant -PRON- ride on -PRON- way . 
 after travel about for a long time -PRON- come to a town where there   be a beautiful but proud princess . -PRON- have make -PRON- know that -PRON- would   marry any man who could ask -PRON- a riddle that -PRON- could not solve .   however , if -PRON- solve -PRON- -PRON- head would be cut off . -PRON- have three day to   think about -PRON- , but be so clever that -PRON- always solve the riddle that   -PRON- have be give before the deadline . when the prince arrive nine man   have already die in this manner . however , -PRON- be blind by -PRON- great   beauty and be willing to risk -PRON- life for -PRON- . 
 -PRON- go before -PRON- and ask -PRON- -PRON- riddle : " what be this ? " -PRON- say .   " one kill none , but still kill twelve ? " 
 -PRON- do not know what -PRON- be . -PRON- think and think , but -PRON- could   not solve -PRON- . -PRON- open -PRON- riddle book , but -PRON- be not there . in short ,   -PRON- wisdom be at an end . 
 not know how to help -PRON- , -PRON- order -PRON- maid to sneak into the   prince 's bedroom . there the maid be to listen to -PRON- dream , for the   princess think that -PRON- would perhaps talk in -PRON- sleep and reveal the   riddle . however , the prince 's clever servant have place -PRON- in the bed   instead of -PRON- master , and when the maid come in , -PRON- rip off the robe   that -PRON- have cover -PRON- with , and then chase -PRON- out with a bundle   of switch . 
 the second night the princess send -PRON- chambermaid , who be to see if   -PRON- would be more successful in listen , but the servant take -PRON- robe   away from -PRON- as well , and then chase -PRON- out with a bundle of switch . 
 the master now believe that -PRON- would be safe for the third night , and   -PRON- lie down in -PRON- own bed . this time the princess -PRON- come . -PRON- have   on a mist - gray robe and sit down next to -PRON- . when -PRON- think that -PRON- be   asleep and dreaming , -PRON- speak to -PRON- , hop that -PRON- would answer in -PRON-   sleep , like many do . however , -PRON- be still awake and understand and hear   everything very well . 
 then -PRON- ask , " one kill none . what be that ? " 
 -PRON- answer , " a raven that eat from a dead and poisoned horse , and die   of -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- ask further , " but still kill twelve . what be that ? " 
 -PRON- answer , " those be twelve murderer who eat the raven and die of   -PRON- . " 
 now that -PRON- know the riddle -PRON- want to sneak away , but -PRON- hold -PRON-   robe so fast that -PRON- have to leave -PRON- behind . 
 the next morning , the princess announce that -PRON- have guess the   riddle and send for the twelve judge and solve -PRON- before -PRON- . 
 but the youth ask for a hearing , say , " -PRON- sneak into -PRON- room   during the night and question -PRON- . otherwise -PRON- would not have guess   -PRON- . " 
 the judge say , " bring -PRON- proof . " 
 then the prince 's servant bring in the three robe , and when the   judge see the mist - gray one which the princess usually wear , -PRON- say ,   " have this robe embroider with gold and silver , and then -PRON- will be -PRON-   wedding robe . " 

 the mouse , the bird , and the sausage 

 whoever be too well off always want to try something different ! thus one day the bird chance to meet another bird , who boast to -PRON- of -PRON- own situation . this bird criticize -PRON- for work so hard while the other two enjoy -PRON- at home . for after the mouse have make the fire and carry the water , -PRON- could sit in the parlor and rest until -PRON- be time for -PRON- to set the table . the sausage have only to stay by the pot watch the food cook . when mealtime approach , -PRON- would slither through the porridge or the vegetable , and thus everything be grease and salt and ready to eat . the bird would bring -PRON- load of wood home . -PRON- would eat -PRON- meal , and then sleep soundly until the next morning . -PRON- be a great life . 
 the next day , because of -PRON- friend 's advice , the bird refuse to go to the forest , say that -PRON- have be -PRON- servant long enough . -PRON- be no longer go to be a fool for -PRON- . everyone should try a different task for a change . the mouse and the sausage argue against this , but the bird be the master , and -PRON- insist that -PRON- give -PRON- a try . the sausage be to fetch wood , the mouse become the cook , and the bird be to carry water . 
 and what be the result ? the sausage trudge off toward the forest ; the bird make the fire ; and the mouse put on the pot and wait for the sausage to return with wood for the next day . however , the sausage stay out so long that the other two fear that something bad have happen . the bird fly off to see if -PRON- could find -PRON- . a short distance away -PRON- come upon a dog that have seize the sausage as free booty and be make off with -PRON- . the bird complain bitterly to the dog about this brazen abduction , but -PRON- claim that -PRON- have discover forge letter on the sausage , and that -PRON- would thus have to forfeit -PRON- life to -PRON- . 
 fill with sorrow , the bird carry the wood home -PRON- and tell the mouse what -PRON- have see and hear . -PRON- be very sad , but be determined to stay together and make the good of -PRON- . the bird set the table while the mouse prepare the food . -PRON- jump into the pot , as the sausage have always do , in order to slither and weave in and about the vegetable and grease -PRON- , but before -PRON- reach the middle , -PRON- hair and skin be scald off , and -PRON- perish . 

 frau holle 

 every day the poor girl have to sit by a well , next to the highway , and spin so much that -PRON- finger bleed . now -PRON- happen that one day the reel be completely bloody , so -PRON- dip -PRON- in the well , to wash -PRON- off , but -PRON- drop out of -PRON- hand and fall in . -PRON- cry , run to -PRON- stepmother , and tell -PRON- of the mishap . -PRON- scold -PRON- so sharply , and be so merciless that -PRON- say , " since -PRON- have let the reel fall in , -PRON- must fetch -PRON- out again . " 
 then the girl go back to the well , and do not know what to do . terrify , -PRON- jump into the well to get the reel . -PRON- lose -PRON- sens . and when -PRON- awake and come to -PRON- again , -PRON- be in a beautiful meadow where the sun be shin , and there be many thousand of flower . -PRON- walk across this meadow and come to an oven full of bread . the bread call out , " oh , take -PRON- out . take -PRON- out , or -PRON- will burn . -PRON- have be thoroughly bake for a long time . " so -PRON- step up to -PRON- , and with a baker 's peel take everything out , one loaf after the other . 
 after that -PRON- walk further and come to a tree laden with apple . " shake -PRON- . shake -PRON- . -PRON- apple be all ripe . " cry the tree . so -PRON- shake the tree until the apple fall as though -PRON- be rain apple . when none be leave in the tree , -PRON- gather -PRON- into a pile , and then continue on -PRON- way . 
 finally -PRON- come to a small house . an old woman be peer out from inside . -PRON- have very large tooth , which frighten the girl , and -PRON- want to run away . but the old woman call out to -PRON- , " do n't be afraid , dear child . stay here with -PRON- , and if -PRON- do -PRON- housework in an orderly fashion , -PRON- will go well with -PRON- . only -PRON- must take care to make -PRON- bed well and shake -PRON- diligently until the feather fly , then -PRON- will snow in the world . * i be frau holle . " 
 because the old woman speak so kindly to -PRON- , the girl take heart , agree , and start in -PRON- service . the girl take care of everything to frau holle 's satisfaction and always shake -PRON- featherb vigorously until the feather fly about like snowflake . therefore -PRON- have a good life with -PRON- : no angry word , and boil or roast meat every day . 
 now after -PRON- have be with frau holle for a time , -PRON- become sad . at first -PRON- do not know what be the matter with -PRON- , but at last -PRON- determine that -PRON- be homesickness . even though -PRON- be many thousand of time better off here than at home , still -PRON- have a yearning to return . finally -PRON- say to the old woman , " i have such a longing for home , and even though i be very well off here , i can not stay longer . i must go up again to -PRON- own people . " 
 frau holle say , " i be pleased that -PRON- long for -PRON- home again , and because -PRON- have serve -PRON- so faithfully , i will take -PRON- back -PRON- . " with that -PRON- take -PRON- by the hand and lead -PRON- to a large gate . 
 the gate be open , and while the girl be stand under -PRON- , an immense rain of gold fall , and all the gold stick to -PRON- , so that -PRON- be completely cover with -PRON- . " this be yours because -PRON- have be so industrious , " say frau holle , and at the same time -PRON- give -PRON- back the reel which have fall into the well . 
 with that the gate be closed and the girl find -PRON- above on earth , not far from -PRON- mother 's house . and as -PRON- enter the yard the rooster , sit on the well , cry : 
 then -PRON- go inside to -PRON- mother , and as -PRON- arrive all cover with gold , -PRON- be well receive , both by -PRON- mother and -PRON- sister . the girl tell all that have happen to -PRON- , and when the mother hear how -PRON- have come to the great wealth , -PRON- want to achieve the same fortune for the other , the ugly and lazy daughter . -PRON- make -PRON- go and sit by the well and spin . and to make -PRON- reel bloody , the lazy girl prick -PRON- finger and shove -PRON- hand into a thorn bush . then -PRON- throw the reel into the well , and jump in -PRON- . 
 like the other girl , -PRON- too come to the beautiful meadow and walk along the same path . when -PRON- come to the oven , the bread cry again , " oh , take -PRON- out . take -PRON- out , or else -PRON- will burn . -PRON- have be thoroughly bake for a long time . " 
 but the lazy girl answer , " as if i would want to get all dirty , " and walk away . 
 soon -PRON- come to the apple tree . -PRON- cry out , " oh , shake -PRON- . shake -PRON- . -PRON- apple be all ripe . " 
 but -PRON- answer , " oh yes , one could fall on -PRON- head , " and with that -PRON- walk on . 
 when -PRON- come to frau holle 's house , -PRON- be not afraid , because -PRON- have already hear about -PRON- large tooth , and -PRON- immediately begin to work for -PRON- . on the first day -PRON- force -PRON- , be industrious , and obey frau holle , when -PRON- say something to -PRON- , because -PRON- be think about all the gold that -PRON- would give -PRON- . but on the second day -PRON- already begin to be lazy , on the third day even more so , and then -PRON- do not even want to get up in the morning . -PRON- do not make the bed for frau holle , the way -PRON- be suppose to , and -PRON- do not shake -PRON- until the feather fly . frau holle soon become tired of this and dismiss -PRON- of -PRON- duty . this be just what the lazy girl want , for -PRON- think that -PRON- would now get the rain of gold . 
 frau holle lead -PRON- too to the gate . -PRON- stand beneath -PRON- , but instead of gold , a large kettle full of pitch spill over -PRON- . " that be the reward for -PRON- service , " say frau holle , and close the gate . 
 then the lazy girl go home , entirely cover with pitch . as soon as the rooster on the well see -PRON- , -PRON- cry out : 
 and the pitch stick fast to -PRON- , and do not come off as long as -PRON- live . 

 * therefore in hessen whenever -PRON- snow -PRON- say that frau holle be make -PRON- bed . 

 the seven raven 

 the father send one of the boy to run quickly to the well and get some   water for the baptism . the other six run along with -PRON- . because each one   of -PRON- want to be first one to dip out the water , the jug fall into the   well . there -PRON- stand not know what to do , and not one of -PRON- dare   to go home . 
 when -PRON- do not return the father grow impatient , and say , " -PRON- have   forget what -PRON- go after because -PRON- be play , those godless   boy . " 
 fear that the girl would die without be baptize , -PRON- cry out in   anger , " i wish that those boy would all turn into raven . " 
 -PRON- have hardly speak these word when -PRON- hear a whirring sound above -PRON-   head , and look up , -PRON- see seven coal - black raven fly up and away . 
 the parent could not take back the curse , and however sad -PRON- be at   the loss of -PRON- seven son , -PRON- be still somewhat comforted because   of -PRON- dear little daughter , who soon gain strength and become more   beautiful every day . 
 for a long time -PRON- do not know that -PRON- have have brother , for -PRON-   parent take care not to mention -PRON- to -PRON- . however , one day -PRON-   accidentally overhear some people talk about -PRON- . -PRON- say that -PRON-   be beautiful enough , but that in truth -PRON- be to blame for -PRON- seven   brother ' misfortune . this trouble -PRON- greatly , and -PRON- go to -PRON-   father and mother and ask -PRON- if -PRON- indeed have have brother , and what   have happen to -PRON- . 
 -PRON- parent could no longer keep the secret , but say that -PRON- have be   heaven 's fate , and that -PRON- birth have be only the innocent cause .   however , this eat at the girl 's conscience every day , and -PRON- come to   believe that -PRON- would have to redeem -PRON- brother . 
 -PRON- have neither rest nor peace until -PRON- secretly set forth and go out   into the wide world , hop to find -PRON- brother and to set -PRON- free ,   whatev -PRON- may cost . -PRON- take nothing with -PRON- but a little ring as a   remembrance from -PRON- parent , a loaf of bread for hunger , a little jug of   water for thirst , and a little chair for when -PRON- get tired . 
 -PRON- walk on and on -- far , far to the end of the world . -PRON- come to the   sun , but -PRON- be too hot and terrible , and eat little child . -PRON- hurry   away , and run to the moon , but -PRON- be much too cold , and also frightening   and wicked , and when -PRON- see the child , -PRON- say , " i smell , smell human   flesh . " 
 then -PRON- hurry away , and come to the star , and -PRON- be friendly and   good to -PRON- , each one sit on -PRON- own little chair . when the morning   star arise , -PRON- give -PRON- a chicken bone , and say , " without that chicken   bone -PRON- can not open the glass mountain , and -PRON- brother be inside the   glass mountain . " 
 the girl take the bone , wrap -PRON- up well in a cloth , and go on -PRON- way   again until -PRON- come to the glass mountain . the door be lock , and -PRON-   start to take out the chicken bone , but when -PRON- open up the cloth , -PRON-   be empty . -PRON- have lose the gift of the good star . 
 what could -PRON- do now ? -PRON- want to rescue -PRON- brother , but -PRON- have no   key to the glass mountain . the good little sister take a knife , cut off   one of -PRON- little finger , put -PRON- into the door , and fortunately the door   open . 
 after -PRON- have go inside a little dwarf come up to -PRON- and say , " -PRON-   child , what be -PRON- look for ? " 
 " i be look for -PRON- brother , the seven raven , " -PRON- reply . 
 the dwarf say , " the lord raven be not at home , but if -PRON- want to wait   here until -PRON- return , step inside . " 
 then the dwarf carry in the raven ' dinner on seven little plate , and   in seven little cup . the sister eat a little bit from each plate and take   a little sip from each cup . into the last cup -PRON- drop the ring that   -PRON- have bring with -PRON- . 
 suddenly -PRON- hear a whirring and rush sound in the air , and the dwarf   say , " the lord raven be fly home now . " 
 -PRON- come , want to eat and drink , and look for -PRON- plate and cup .   then one after the other of -PRON- say , " who have be eat from -PRON- plate ?   who have be drink from -PRON- cup ? -PRON- be a human mouth . " 
 when the seventh one come to the bottom of -PRON- cup , the ring roll toward   -PRON- . look at -PRON- , -PRON- see that -PRON- be a ring from -PRON- father and   mother , and say , " god grant that -PRON- sister may be here ; then -PRON- would   be set free . " 
 the girl be listen from behind the door , and when -PRON- hear this wish   -PRON- come forth . then the raven be restore to -PRON- human form again .   -PRON- hug and kiss one another , and go home happily . 


 little red cap 

 one day -PRON- mother say to -PRON- , " come little red cap . here be a piece of cake and a bottle of wine . take -PRON- to -PRON- grandmother . -PRON- be sick and weak , and -PRON- will do -PRON- well . mind -PRON- manner and give -PRON- -PRON- greeting . behave -PRON- on the way , and do not leave the path , or -PRON- may fall down and break the glass , and then there will be nothing for -PRON- grandmother . and when -PRON- enter -PRON- parlor , do not forget to say ' good morning , ' and do not peer into all the corner first . " 
 " i 'll do everything just right , " say little red cap , shake -PRON- mother 's hand . 
 the grandmother live out in the wood , a half hour from the village . when little red cap enter the wood a wolf come up to -PRON- . -PRON- do not know what a wicked animal -PRON- be , and be not afraid of -PRON- . 
 " good day to -PRON- , little red cap . " 
 " thank -PRON- , wolf . " 
 " where be -PRON- go so early , little red cap ? " 
 " to grandmother 's . " 
 " and what be -PRON- carry under -PRON- apron ? " 
 " grandmother be sick and weak , and i be take -PRON- some cake and wine . -PRON- bake yesterday , and -PRON- should be good for -PRON- and give -PRON- strength . " 
 " little red cap , just where do -PRON- grandmother live ? " 
 " -PRON- house be good quarter hour from here in the wood , under the three large oak tree . there be a hedge of hazel bush there . -PRON- must know the place , " say little red cap . 
 the wolf think to -PRON- , " now that sweet young thing be a tasty bite for -PRON- . -PRON- will taste even good than the old woman . -PRON- must be sly , and -PRON- can catch -PRON- both . " 
 -PRON- walk along a little while with little red cap , then -PRON- say , " little red cap , just look at the beautiful flower that be all around -PRON- . why do not -PRON- go and take a look ? and i do not believe -PRON- can hear how beautifully the bird be sing . -PRON- be walk along as though -PRON- be on -PRON- way to school . -PRON- be very beautiful in the wood . " 
 little red cap open -PRON- eye and when -PRON- see the sunbeam dance to and fro through the tree and how the ground be covered with beautiful flower , -PRON- think , " if a take a fresh bouquet to grandmother , -PRON- will be very pleased . anyway , -PRON- be still early , and -PRON- will be home on time . " and -PRON- run off the path into the wood look for flower . each time -PRON- pick one -PRON- think that -PRON- could see an even more beautiful one a little way off , and -PRON- run after -PRON- , go further and further into the wood . but the wolf run straight to the grandmother 's house and knock on the door . 
 " who be there ? " 
 " little red cap . -PRON- be bring -PRON- some cake and wine . open the door . " 
 " just press the latch , " call out the grandmother . " -PRON- be too weak to get up . " 
 the wolf press the latch , and the door open . -PRON- step inside , go straight to the grandmother 's bed , and eat -PRON- up . then -PRON- put on -PRON- clothe , put -PRON- cap on -PRON- head , get into -PRON- bed , and pull the curtain shut . 
 little red cap have run after the flower . after -PRON- have gather so many that -PRON- could not carry any more , -PRON- remember -PRON- grandmother , and then continue on -PRON- way to -PRON- house . -PRON- find , to -PRON- surprise , that the door be open . -PRON- walk into the parlor , and everything look so strange that -PRON- think , " oh , my god , why be i so afraid ? i usually like -PRON- at grandmother 's . " 
 -PRON- call out , " good morning ! " but receive no answer . 
 then -PRON- go to the bed and pull back the curtain . grandmother be lie there with -PRON- cap pull down over -PRON- face and look very strange . 
 " oh , grandmother , what big ear -PRON- have ! " 
 " all the good to hear -PRON- with . " 
 " oh , grandmother , what big eye -PRON- have ! " 
 " all the good to see -PRON- with . " 
 " oh , grandmother , what big hand -PRON- have ! " 
 " all the good to grab -PRON- with ! " 
 " oh , grandmother , what a horribly big mouth -PRON- have ! " 
 " all the good to eat -PRON- with ! " 
 the wolf have scarcely finish speak when -PRON- jump from the bed with a single leap and eat up poor little red cap . as soon as the wolf have satisfied -PRON- desire , -PRON- climb back into bed , fall asleep , and begin to snore very loudly . 
 a huntsman be just pass by . -PRON- think , " the old woman be snore so loudly . -PRON- have good see if something be wrong with -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- step into the parlor , and when -PRON- approach the bed , -PRON- see the wolf lie there . " so here i find -PRON- , -PRON- old sinner , " -PRON- say . " i have be hunt for -PRON- a long time . " 
 -PRON- be about to aim -PRON- rifle when -PRON- occur to -PRON- that the wolf may have eat the grandmother , and that -PRON- still may be rescue . so instead of shoot , -PRON- take a pair of scissor and begin to cut open the wolf 's belly . after a few cut -PRON- see the red cap shin through . , and after a few more cut the girl jump out , cry , " oh , i be so frightened ! -PRON- be so dark inside the wolf 's body ! " 
 and then the grandmother come out as well , alive but hardly able to breathe . then little red cap fetch some large stone . -PRON- fill the wolf 's body with -PRON- , and when -PRON- wake up and try to run away , the stone be so heavy that -PRON- immediately fall down dead . 
 the three of -PRON- be happy . the huntsman skin the wolf and go home with the pelt . the grandmother eat the cake and drank the wine that little red cap have bring . and little red cap thought , " as long as i live , i will never leave the path and run off into the wood by -PRON- if mother tell -PRON- not to . " 
 -PRON- also tell how little red cap be take some baked thing to -PRON- grandmother another time , when another wolf speak to -PRON- and want -PRON- to leave the path . but little red cap take care and go straight to grandmother 's . -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- have see the wolf , and that -PRON- have wish -PRON- a good day , but have star at -PRON- in a wicked manner . " if -PRON- have not be on a public road , -PRON- would have eat -PRON- up , " -PRON- say . 
 " come , " say the grandmother . " let 's lock the door , so -PRON- can not get in . " 
 soon afterward the wolf knock on the door and call out , " open up , grandmother . -PRON- be little red cap , and -PRON- be bring -PRON- some baked thing . " 
 -PRON- remain silent , and do not open the door . gray - head creep around the house several time , and finally jump onto the roof . -PRON- want to wait until little red cap go home that evening , then follow -PRON- and eat -PRON- up in the darkness . but the grandmother see what -PRON- be up to . there be a large stone trough in front of the house . 

 the breman town musician 

 " why be -PRON- pant so , grab - hold ? " ask the donkey . 
 " oh , " say the dog , " because i be old and be get weak every day   and can no longer go hunting , -PRON- master want to kill -PRON- , so i run off ;   but now how should i earn -PRON- bread ? " 
 " do -PRON- know what , " say the donkey , " i be go to breman and be go   to become a town musician there . come along and take up music too . -PRON- will   play the lute , and -PRON- can beat the drum . " 
 the dog be satisfied with that , and -PRON- go further . -PRON- do not take   long , before -PRON- come to a cat sit by the side of the road and make   a face like three day of rainy weather . " what have cross -PRON- , old   beard - licker ? " say the donkey . 
 " oh , " answer the cat , " who can be cheerful when -PRON- neck be at risk ?   i be get on in year , and -PRON- tooth be get dull , so i would rather   sit behind the stove and purr than to chase around after mouse . therefore   -PRON- mistress want to drown -PRON- , but i take off . now good advice be scarce .   where should i go ? " 
 " come with -PRON- to breman . after all , -PRON- understand night music . -PRON- can   become a town musician there . " the cat agree and go along . 
 then the three refugee come to a farmyard , and the rooster of the   house be sit on the gate cry with all -PRON- might . 
 " -PRON- cry pierce one 's marrow and bone , " say the donkey . " what be   -PRON- up to ? " 
 " i just prophesy good weather , " say the rooster , " because -PRON- be -PRON-   dear lady 's day , when -PRON- wash the christ child 's shirt and want to   dry -PRON- ; but because sunday guest be come tomorrow , the lady of the   house have no mercy and tell the cook that -PRON- want to eat -PRON- tomorrow in   the soup , so i be suppose to let -PRON- cut off -PRON- head this evening . now i   be go to cry at the top of -PRON- voice as long as i can . " 
 " hey now , red - head , " say the donkey , " instead come away with -PRON- . -PRON- be   go to breman . -PRON- can always find something good than death . -PRON- have   a good voice , and when -PRON- make music together , -PRON- will be very pleasing . " 
 the rooster be happy with the proposal , and all four go off   together . however , -PRON- could not reach the city of bremen in one day , and   in the evening -PRON- come into a forest , where -PRON- would spend the night .   the donkey and the dog lie down under a big tree , but the cat and the   rooster take to the branch . the rooster fly right to the top , where -PRON-   be safe for -PRON- . before fall asleep -PRON- look around once again in   all four direction , and -PRON- think that -PRON- see a little spark burn in   the distance . -PRON- holler to -PRON- companion , that there must be a house   not too far away , for a light be shin . 
 the donkey say , " then -PRON- must get up and go there , because the lodging   here be poor . " the dog say that -PRON- could do well with a few bone with a   little meat on -PRON- . thus -PRON- set forth toward the place where the light   be , and -PRON- soon see -PRON- glisten more brightly , and -PRON- become large   and large , until -PRON- come to the front of a brightly light robber ' house . 
 the donkey , the large of -PRON- , approach the window and look in . 
 " what do -PRON- see , gray - horse ? " ask the rooster . 
 " what do i see ? " answer the donkey . " a table set with good thing to   eat and drink , and robber sit there enjoy -PRON- . " 
 " that would be something for -PRON- , " say the rooster . 
 " ee - ah , ee - ah , oh , if -PRON- be there ! " say the donkey . 
 then the animal discuss how -PRON- may drive the robber away , and   at last -PRON- come upon a plan . the donkey be to stand with -PRON- front foot   on the window , the dog to jump on the donkey 's back , the cat to climb onto   the dog , and finally the rooster would fly up and sit on the cat 's head .   when -PRON- have do that , at a signal -PRON- begin to make -PRON- music all   together . the donkey bray , the dog bark , the cat meow and the   rooster crow . then -PRON- crash through the window into the room ,   shatter the pane . 
 the robber jump up at the terrible bellowing , think that a ghost   be come in , and flee in great fear out into the wood . then the four   companion seat -PRON- at the table and freely partook of the   leftover , eat as if -PRON- would get nothing more for four week . 
 when the four minstrel be finish , -PRON- put out the light and   look for a place to sleep , each accord to -PRON- nature and -PRON- desire .   the donkey lie down on the manure pile , the dog behind the door , the cat   on the hearth next to the warm ash , and the rooster sit on the beam of   the roof . because -PRON- be tired from -PRON- long journey , -PRON- soon fall   asleep . 
 when midnight have pass and the robber see from the distance that the   light be no longer burn in the house , and everything appear to be   quiet , the captain say , " -PRON- should not have let -PRON- be chase off , "   and -PRON- tell one of -PRON- to go back and investigate the house . the one -PRON-   send find everything still , and go into the kitchen to strike a light .   -PRON- mistake the cat 's glowing , fiery eye for live coal , and hold a sulfur   match next to -PRON- , so that -PRON- would catch fire . but the cat do not think   this be funny and jump into -PRON- face , spit , and scratching . 
 -PRON- be terribly frightened and run toward the back door , but the dog ,   who be lie there , jump up and bit -PRON- in the leg . when -PRON- run across   the yard past the manure pile , the donkey give -PRON- a healthy blow with -PRON-   hind foot , and the rooster , who have be awaken from -PRON- sleep by the   noise and be now alert , cry down from the beam , " cock - a - doodle - doo ! " 
 then the robber run as fast as -PRON- could back to -PRON- captain and say ,   " oh , there be a horrible witch sit in the house , -PRON- blow at -PRON- and   scratch -PRON- face with -PRON- long finger . and there be a man with a knife   stand in front of the door , and -PRON- stab -PRON- in the leg . and a black   monster be lie in the yard , and -PRON- strike at -PRON- with a wooden club . and   the judge be sit up there on the roof , and -PRON- be call out , ' bring   the rascal here . ' then i do what i could to get away . " 
 from that time forth , the robber do not dare go back into the house .   however , the four breman musician like -PRON- so well there , that -PRON- never   leave -PRON- again . and the person who just tell that , -PRON- mouth be still   warm . 

 the singing bone 

 now in this country there live two brother , son of a poor man . -PRON- declare that -PRON- dare to attempt the task . the old one , who be crafty and shrewd , do so out of pride . the young one , who be innocent and simple , do so because of -PRON- kind heart . 
 the king say , " in order to be more sure of find the beast , -PRON- should enter the wood from opposite side . " 
 thus the old one enter the wood from the west , and the young one from the east . 
 after the young one have walk a little while , a little dwarf step up to -PRON- . -PRON- hold a black spear in -PRON- hand and say , " i be give -PRON- this spear because -PRON- heart be innocent and good . with -PRON- -PRON- can confidently attack the wild boar . -PRON- will do -PRON- no harm . " 
 -PRON- thank the dwarf , put the spear on -PRON- shoulder , and walk on fearlessly . 
 before long -PRON- see the beast . -PRON- attack -PRON- , but -PRON- hold the spear toward -PRON- , and in -PRON- blind fury -PRON- run into the spear with such force that -PRON- heart be slash in two . 
 then -PRON- put the monster on -PRON- back and turn towards home , intend to take -PRON- to the king . 
 emerge from the other side of the wood , -PRON- come to a house where people be make merry drinking wine and dancing . -PRON- old brother be there too . think that the boar would not run away from -PRON- any time soon , -PRON- have decide to drink -PRON- some real courage . when -PRON- see -PRON- young brother come out of the wood with -PRON- booty , -PRON- envious and evil heart give -PRON- no peace . 
 -PRON- call out to -PRON- , " come in , dear brother . rest and refresh -PRON- with a beaker of wine . " 
 the young brother , suspect no evil , go in and tell -PRON- about the good dwarf who have give -PRON- the spear with which -PRON- have kill the boar . 
 the old brother keep -PRON- there until evening , and then -PRON- set forth together . after dark -PRON- come to a bridge over a brook , and the old brother let the young one go first . when the young brother reach the middle above the water , the old one give -PRON- such a blow from behind that -PRON- fall down dead . 
 -PRON- bury -PRON- beneath the bridge , take the boar , and deliver -PRON- to the king , pretend that -PRON- have kill -PRON- . with this -PRON- receive the king 's daughter in marriage . 
 when -PRON- young brother do not return -PRON- say , " the boar must have rip -PRON- apart , " and every one believe -PRON- . 
 but as nothing remain hidden from god , this black deed be also to come to light . 
 after many long year a shepherd be drive -PRON- herd across the bridge and see a little snow - white bone lie in the sand below . think that -PRON- would make a good mouthpiece , -PRON- climb down , pick -PRON- up , and then carve out of -PRON- a mouthpiece for -PRON- horn . when -PRON- blow into -PRON- for the first time , to -PRON- great astonishment the bone begin to sing by -PRON- : 
 " what a wonderful horn , " say the shepherd . " -PRON- sing by -PRON- . i must take -PRON- to the king . " 
 when -PRON- bring -PRON- before the king , the horn again begin to sing -PRON- little song . the king understand -PRON- well , and have the earth beneath the bridge dig up . then the whole skeleton of the murder man come to light . 
 the wicked brother could not deny the deed . -PRON- be sew into a sack and drown alive . the murder man 's bone be lay to rest in a beautiful grave in the churchyard . 

 little louse and little flea 

 then the little parlor door say , " why be -PRON- cry , little flea ? " 
 " because little louse have burn -PRON- to death . " 
 then the little door begin to creak . 
 then a little broom in the corner say , " why be -PRON- creak , little   door ? " 
 " why should i not be creak ? 
 then the little broom begin to sweep furiously . 
 then a little cart come by and say , " why be -PRON- sweep , little   broom ? " 
 " why should i not be sweep ? 
 then the little cart say , " then i will run , " and -PRON- begin to run   furiously . 
 -PRON- run by a little manure pile , which say , " why be -PRON- run ,   little cart ? " 
 " why should i not be run ? 
 then the little manure pile say , " then i will burn furiously , " and -PRON-   begin to burn in bright flame . 
 a little tree that stand near the little manure pile say , " little   manure pile , why be -PRON- burn ? " 
 " why should i not be burn ? 
 then the little tree say , " then i will shake -PRON- , " and -PRON- begin to   shake -PRON- until all -PRON- leaf fall off . 
 a girl who come up with -PRON- water pitcher see that , and say , " little   tree , why be -PRON- shake ? " 
 " why should i not be shake ? 
 then the girl say , " then i will break -PRON- little water pitcher . " and   -PRON- break -PRON- little water pitcher . 
 then the little spring from which the water be flow say , " girl ,   why do -PRON- break -PRON- little water pitcher ? " 
 " why should i not break -PRON- little water pitcher ? 

 the girl without hand 

 " what can that be but -PRON- apple tree ? " think the miller , say yes , and   sign -PRON- over to the strange man . 
 the latter , however , laugh mockingly and say , " i will come in three   year and get what belong to -PRON- , " then go away . 
 when -PRON- arrive home , -PRON- wife come up to -PRON- and say , " miller , tell   -PRON- , where do all the wealth come from that be suddenly in -PRON- house ? all   at once all the chest and box be full , and no one bring -PRON- here , and   i do not know where -PRON- come from . " 
 -PRON- answer , " -PRON- come from an strange man whom i meet in the wood and   who promise -PRON- great treasure if i would but sign over to -PRON- that which   stand behind the mill . -PRON- can give up the large apple tree for all this . " 
 " oh , husband ! " say the woman , terrify . " that be the devil . -PRON-   do not mean the apple tree , but -PRON- daughter , who be just then stand   behind the mill sweep the yard . " 
 the miller 's daughter be a beautiful and pious girl , and -PRON- live the   three year worship god and without sin . when the time be up and the   day come when the evil one be to get -PRON- , -PRON- wash -PRON- clean and   draw a circle around -PRON- with chalk . the devil appear very early in   the morning , but -PRON- could not approach -PRON- . 
 -PRON- speak angrily to the miller , " keep water away from -PRON- , so -PRON-   can not wash -PRON- any more . otherwise i have no power over -PRON- . " 
 the miller be frightened and do what -PRON- be tell . the next morning   the devil return , but -PRON- have weep into -PRON- hand , and -PRON- be   entirely clean . 
 thus -PRON- still could not approach -PRON- , and -PRON- speak angrily to the   miller , " chop off -PRON- hand . otherwise i can not get to -PRON- . " 
 the miller be horrified and answer , " how could i chop off -PRON-   own child 's hand ! " 
 then the evil one threaten -PRON- , say , " if -PRON- do not do -PRON- , then   -PRON- will be mine , and i will take -PRON- -PRON- . " 
 this frighten the father , and -PRON- promise to obey -PRON- . then -PRON- go   to the girl and say , " -PRON- child , if i do not chop off both of -PRON- hand ,   then the devil will take -PRON- away , and in -PRON- fear i have promise -PRON- to do   this . help -PRON- in -PRON- need , and forgive -PRON- of the evil that i be go to do   to -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- answer , " dear father , do with -PRON- what -PRON- will . i be -PRON- child , "   and with that -PRON- stretch forth both hand and let -PRON- father chop -PRON-   off . 
 the devil come a third time , but -PRON- have weep so long and so much onto   the stump , that -PRON- be entirely clean . then -PRON- have to give up , for -PRON-   have lose all claim to -PRON- . 
 the miller speak to -PRON- , " i have gain great wealth through -PRON- . i   shall take care of -PRON- in splendor as long as -PRON- live . " 
 but -PRON- answer , " i can not remain here . i will go away . compassionate   people will give -PRON- as much as i ne . " 
 then -PRON- have -PRON- mutilate arm tie to -PRON- back , and at sunrise -PRON-   set forth , walk the entire day until -PRON- be night . -PRON- come to a royal   garden , and by the light of the moon -PRON- see that inside there be tree   full of beautiful fruit . but -PRON- could not get inside , for there -PRON- be   surround by water . 
 have walk the entire day without eat a bite , -PRON- be suffer   from hunger , and -PRON- think , " oh , if only i be inside the garden so i   could eat of those fruit . otherwise i shall perish . " 
 then -PRON- kneel down and , cry out to god the lord , -PRON- pray .   suddenly an angel appear . -PRON- close a head gate , so that the moat dry   up , and -PRON- could walk through . 
 -PRON- enter the garden , and the angel go with -PRON- . -PRON- see a fruit   tree with beautiful pear , but -PRON- have all be count . -PRON- step up   to the tree and eat from -PRON- with -PRON- mouth , enough to satisfy -PRON- hunger ,   but no more . the gardener see -PRON- happen , but because the angel be   stand by -PRON- -PRON- be afraid and think that the girl be a spirit . -PRON-   say nothing and do not dare to call out nor to speak to the spirit .   after -PRON- have eat the pear -PRON- be full , and -PRON- go and lie down in   the brush . 
 the king who own this garden come the next morning . -PRON- count the   fruit and see that one of the pear be miss . -PRON- ask the gardener   what have happen to -PRON- . -PRON- be not lie under the tree , but have somehow   disappear . 
 the gardener answer , " last night a spirit come here . -PRON- have no hand   and eat one of the pear with -PRON- mouth . " 
 the king say , " how do the spirit get across the water ? and where do   -PRON- go after -PRON- have eat the pear ? " 
 the gardener answer , " someone dress in snow - white come from heaven   and close the head gate so the spirit could walk through the moat .   because -PRON- must have be an angel i be afraid , and i ask no question ,   and i do not call out . after the spirit have eat the pear -PRON- go away   again . " 
 the king say , " if what -PRON- say be true , i will keep watch with -PRON-   tonight . " 
 after -PRON- be dark the king enter the garden , bring a priest with   -PRON- who be to talk to the spirit . all three sit down under the tree and   keep watch . at midnight the girl come creep out of the brush , step   up to the tree , and again eat off a pear with -PRON- mouth . an angel dress   in white be stand next to -PRON- . 
 the priest walk up to -PRON- and say , " have -PRON- come from god , or from   the world ? be -PRON- a spirit or a human ? " 
 -PRON- answer , " i be not a spirit , but a poor human who have be   abandon by everyone except god . " 
 the king say , " even if -PRON- have be abandon by the whole world , i   will not abandon -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- take -PRON- home with -PRON- to -PRON- royal castle , and because -PRON- be so   beautiful and pure -PRON- love -PRON- with all -PRON- heart , have silver hand make   for -PRON- , and take -PRON- as -PRON- wife . 
 after a year the king have to go out into the battlefield , and -PRON- leave   the young queen in the care of -PRON- mother , say , " if -PRON- have a child ,   support -PRON- and take good care of -PRON- , and immediately send -PRON- the news in   a letter . " 
 -PRON- give birth to a beautiful son . the old mother quickly write this in   a letter , give the joyful news to the king . 
 now on the way the messenger stop at a brook to rest . tired from -PRON-   long journey , -PRON- fall asleep . then the devil come to -PRON- . -PRON- still want   to harm the pious queen , and -PRON- take the letter , put in -PRON- place one   that state that the queen have bring a changeling into the world . when   the king read this letter -PRON- be frightened and saddened , but nevertheless   -PRON- write an answer that -PRON- should take good care of the queen until -PRON-   return . the messenger return with this letter , but -PRON- rest at the same   place , and again fall asleep . the devil come again and place a different   letter in -PRON- bag . this letter say that -PRON- should kill the queen with   -PRON- child . 
 the old mother be terribly frightened when -PRON- receive this letter .   -PRON- could not believe -PRON- , and write to the king again , but -PRON- get back   the same answer , because each time the devil substitute a false letter .   and the last letter even state that -PRON- should keep the queen 's tongue   and eye as proof . 
 the old mother lament that such innocent blood be to be shed , and in   the night -PRON- have a doe kill , cut out -PRON- tongue and eye , and have -PRON-   put aside . 
 then -PRON- say to the queen , " i can not have -PRON- kill as the king have   order , but -PRON- can no longer stay here . go out into the wide world with   -PRON- child , and never come back . " 
 the old mother tie the queen 's child onto -PRON- back , and the poor woman   go away with weeping eye . -PRON- come to a great , wild forest where -PRON-   get onto -PRON- knee and pray to god . then the angel of the lord appear   to -PRON- and lead -PRON- to a small house . on -PRON- be a small sign with the   word , " here anyone can live free . " 
 a snow - white virgin come from the house and say , " welcome , queen , "   then lead -PRON- inside . -PRON- untie the small boy from -PRON- back , hold -PRON- to   -PRON- breast so -PRON- could drink , and then lay -PRON- in a beautiful make - up   bed . 
 then the poor woman say , " how do -PRON- know that i be a queen ? " 
 the white virgin answer , " i be an angel , send by god to take care of   -PRON- and -PRON- child . " 
 -PRON- stay in this house for seven year , and be well take care of .   and through the grace of god and -PRON- own piety -PRON- chop - off hand grow   back . 
 the king finally come back home from the battlefield , and the first   thing -PRON- want to do be to see -PRON- wife and -PRON- child . 
 then the old mother begin to weep , say , " -PRON- wicked man , why do -PRON-   write to -PRON- that i be to put two innocent soul to death , " and -PRON- show   -PRON- the two letter that the evil one have counterfeit . then -PRON-   continue to speak , " i do what -PRON- order , " and show -PRON- as proof the   eye and the tongue . 
 then the king begin to weep even more bitterly for -PRON- poor wife and   -PRON- little son , until the old woman have mercy and say to -PRON- , " be   satisfied that -PRON- be still alive . i secretly have a doe kill and take   the proofs from -PRON- . i tie -PRON- wife 's child onto -PRON- back and tell -PRON- to   go out into the wide world , and -PRON- have to promise never to come back   here , because -PRON- be so angry with -PRON- . " 
 then the king say , " i will go as far as the sky be blue , and will   neither eat nor drink until i have find -PRON- dear wife and -PRON- child again ,   provide that in the meantime -PRON- have not die or perish from hunger . " 
 then the king travel about for nearly seven year , search in all   the stone cliff and cave , but -PRON- do not find -PRON- , and -PRON- think that   -PRON- have perish . -PRON- neither eat nor drink during the entire time , but god   keep -PRON- alive . finally -PRON- come to a great forest , where -PRON- find a little   house with a sign contain the word , " here anyone can live free . " 
 the white virgin come out , take -PRON- by the hand , lead -PRON- inside , and   say , " welcome , king , " then ask -PRON- where -PRON- have come from . 
 -PRON- answer , " i have be travel about for nearly seven year   look for -PRON- wife and -PRON- child , but i can not find -PRON- . " 
 the angel offer -PRON- something to eat and drink , but -PRON- do not take   -PRON- , want only to rest a little . -PRON- lie down to sleep , cover -PRON- face   with a cloth . 
 then the angel go into the room where the queen be sit with -PRON-   son , whom -PRON- normally call " fill - with - grief . " 
 the angel say to -PRON- , " go into the next room with -PRON- child . -PRON-   husband have come . " 
 -PRON- go to where -PRON- be lie , and the cloth fall from -PRON- face . 
 then -PRON- say , " fill - with - grief , pick up the cloth for -PRON- father   and put -PRON- over -PRON- face again . " 
 the child pick -PRON- up and put -PRON- over -PRON- face again . the king hear   this in -PRON- sleep and let the cloth fall again . 
 then the little boy grow impatient and say , " mother , dear , how can i   cover -PRON- father 's face ? i have no father in this world . i have learn to   pray , ' -PRON- father which art in heaven , ' and -PRON- have say that -PRON- father   be in heaven , and that -PRON- be -PRON- dear god . how can i know such a wild man ?   -PRON- be not -PRON- father . " 
 hear this , the king arise and ask who -PRON- be . 
 -PRON- say , " i be -PRON- wife , and this be -PRON- son fill - with - grief . " 
 -PRON- see -PRON- live hand and say , " -PRON- wife have silver hand . " 
 -PRON- answer , " -PRON- merciful god have cause -PRON- natural hand to grow   back . " 
 the angel go into the other room , bring back the silver hand , and   show -PRON- to -PRON- . now -PRON- see for sure that -PRON- be -PRON- dear wife and -PRON-   dear child , and -PRON- kiss -PRON- , and rejoice , and say , " a heavy stone have   fall from -PRON- heart . " 
 then the angel of god give -PRON- all something to eat , and then -PRON-   go back home to -PRON- old mother . there be great joy everywhere , and the   king and the queen conduct -PRON- wedding ceremony once again , and -PRON-   live happily until -PRON- blessed end . 
 the miller think , " that be -PRON- apple tree , " agree , and sign -PRON- over to the man . 
 when -PRON- come home , -PRON- wife say to -PRON- , " miller , where do all the wealth come from that suddenly have fill every chest and cupboard in -PRON- house ? " 
 " i receive -PRON- from an old man in the forest by sign over to -PRON- that which be stand behind the mill . " 
 " husband ! " say the woman , terrify .   " this be go to be very bad .   the old man be the devil , and -PRON- have -PRON- daughter in mind , who be just then stand behind the mill sweep the yard . " 
 now the miller 's daughter be very beautiful and pious .   three year later when the devil come , early in the morning , and want to take -PRON- , -PRON- have draw a circle around -PRON- with chalk and have wash -PRON- clean . 
 therefore the devil could not approach -PRON- , and angrily -PRON- say to the miller , " keep wash water away from -PRON- , so -PRON- can not wash -PRON- any more , and i can have power over -PRON- . " 
 the miller be frightened and do what -PRON- be tell .   the next day the devil return , but -PRON- have weep into -PRON- hand and wash -PRON- with -PRON- tear , and be entirely clean . 
 because the devil still could not approach -PRON- , -PRON- be very angry , and order the miller , " chop off -PRON- hand , so i can get to -PRON- . " 
 the miller be horrified and answer , " how could i chop off -PRON- dear child 's hand ?   no , i will not do -PRON- . " 
 " then do -PRON- know what ?   i will take -PRON- , if -PRON- do not do -PRON- ! " 
 that frighten the miller terribly , and drive by fear -PRON- promise to do what the devil have order .   -PRON- go to -PRON- daughter and say , " -PRON- child , the devil will take -PRON- if i do not chop off both -PRON- hand , and i have promise -PRON- that i will do -PRON- .   i beg for -PRON- forgiveness . " 
 " father , " -PRON- say , " do with -PRON- what -PRON- will , " stretch forth -PRON- hand , and let -PRON- chop -PRON- off . 
 the devil come a third time , but -PRON- have weep so long onto -PRON- stump , that -PRON- be still entirely clean , and the devil have lose all power over -PRON- . 
 the miller , because -PRON- have become so wealthy through -PRON- , promise to take the good care of -PRON- for the rest of -PRON- life , but -PRON- do not want to remain there . 
 " i must leave here , " -PRON- say .   " compassionate people will give -PRON- enough to keep -PRON- alive . " 
 -PRON- have the chop - off hand tie to -PRON- back , and -PRON- set forth with the rise sun , walk the entire day until evening , when -PRON- come to the king 's garden .   there be a gap in the garden hedge .   -PRON- go inside , find a fruit tree , shake -PRON- with -PRON- body until the apple fall to the ground , bent over and pick -PRON- up with -PRON- tooth , and eat -PRON- .   thus -PRON- live for two day , but on the third day the garden watchman see -PRON- , capture -PRON- , and throw -PRON- into prison . 
 the next morning -PRON- be bring before the king and sentence to be banish from the land , but the prince say , " wait , would not -PRON- be good to let -PRON- tend the chicken in the courtyard ? "   so -PRON- stay there for a time and tend the chicken .   the prince see -PRON- often and grow very fond of -PRON- . 
 meanwhile the time come when -PRON- be to get marry .   messenger be send everywhere in the world to find -PRON- a beautiful bride .   " -PRON- ne not look so far and wide , " -PRON- say .   " i know where one be very nearby . " 
 the old king ponder this back and forth , but -PRON- could not think of a single maiden in -PRON- kingdom who be both beautiful and rich , " -PRON- surely do not want to marry the one who tend the chicken in the courtyard ? "   but -PRON- son declare that -PRON- would marry no one else , so finally the king have to agree .   soon afterward -PRON- die , and the prince succeed -PRON- as king and live happily for a time with -PRON- wife . 
 once the king have to go away to war , and during -PRON- absence -PRON- wife give birth to a beautiful child .   -PRON- send a messenger with a letter tell -PRON- husband the joyful news .   on the way the messenger stop to rest by a brook and fall asleep .   the devil , who be still try to harm -PRON- , come to -PRON- and exchange the letter with one that state that the queen have give birth to a changeling .   the king be very sadden to read this , but -PRON- write that the queen and the child should be well care for until -PRON- return .   the messenger start back with this letter .   when -PRON- stop to rest at the same spot and fall asleep , the devil again appear , this time exchange the king 's letter with one that order the queen and the child to be drive from the kingdom .   this have to be do , however much the people all weep with sorrow . 
 " i do not come here to become queen , " -PRON- say .   " i have no luck , and i demand none .   just tie -PRON- child and -PRON- hand onto -PRON- back , and i will set forth into the world . " 
 that evening -PRON- come to a place in a thick forest where a good old man be sit by a spring .   " be so kindheart as to hold -PRON- child to -PRON- breast until i have nurse -PRON- , " -PRON- say . 
 the man do that , after which -PRON- say to -PRON- , " go to that thick tree over there and wrap -PRON- maim arm around -PRON- three time ! "   and when -PRON- have do this , -PRON- hand grow back on .   then -PRON- show -PRON- a house .   " -PRON- can live there , " -PRON- say , " but do not go outside , and do not open the door for anyone unless -PRON- ask three time to come in , for god 's sake . " 
 meanwhile the king return home and discover how -PRON- have be deceive .   accompany by a single servant -PRON- set forth , and after a long journey -PRON- finally happen , one night , into the same forest where the queen be live , but -PRON- do not know that -PRON- be so close to -PRON- .   " there be a little light from a house back there , " say -PRON- servant .   " -PRON- can rest there . " 
 " no , " say the king .   " i do not want to rest so long , but rather to continue search for -PRON- wife .   i can not rest until i find -PRON- . " 
 but the servant beg so much and complain so about -PRON- weariness that out of compassion , the king give in .   when -PRON- come to the house , the moon be shin , and -PRON- see the queen stand by the window .   " that must be -PRON- queen ; -PRON- look just like -PRON- , " say the servant , " but i see now that -PRON- be not the one , for this one have hand . " 
 the servant ask -PRON- for shelter , but -PRON- refuse , because -PRON- have not ask " for god 's sake . "   -PRON- be about to go on and seek another place for -PRON- night 's lodging when the king -PRON- come up and say , " let -PRON- in , for god 's sake ! " 
 " i can not let -PRON- in until -PRON- have ask -PRON- three time , for god 's sake , " -PRON- reply .   and after the king have ask two more time , -PRON- open the door .   -PRON- little son run to -PRON- and lead -PRON- in to -PRON- mother .   the king recognize -PRON- immediately as -PRON- beloved wife .   the next morning -PRON- all journey together back to -PRON- kingdom , and as soon as -PRON- have leave the house , -PRON- disappear behind -PRON- . 


 clever han 

 " behave -PRON- , han . " 
 " behave -PRON- . good - bye , mother . " 
 " good - bye , han . " 
 han come to gretel 's . " good day , gretel . " 
 " good day , han . be -PRON- bring something good ? " 
 " bring nothing . want something . " 
 gretel give han a needle . 
 hans say , " good - bye , gretel . " 
 " good - bye , han . " 
 hans take the needle , stick -PRON- into a hay wagon , and walk home behind   the wagon . 
 " good evening , mother . " 
 " good evening , han . where have -PRON- be ? " 
 " at gretel 's . " 
 " what do -PRON- take -PRON- ? " 
 " take nothing . get something . " 
 " what do gretel give -PRON- ? " 
 " give -PRON- a needle . " 
 " where be the needle , han ? " 
 " stick in the hay wagon . " 
 " that be stupid , han . -PRON- should have stick the needle in -PRON- sleeve . " 
 " do not matter . do good . " 
 " where be -PRON- go , han ? " 
 " to gretel 's , mother . " 
 " behave -PRON- , han . " 
 " behave -PRON- . good - bye , mother . " 
 " good - bye , han . " 
 han come to gretel 's . " good day , gretel . " 
 " good day , han . be -PRON- bring something good ? " 
 " bring nothing . want something . " 
 gretel give han a knife . 
 " good - bye , gretel . " 
 " good - bye han . " 
 hans take the knife , stick -PRON- in -PRON- sleeve , and go home . 
 " good evening , mother . " 
 " good evening , han . where have -PRON- be ? " 
 " at gretel 's . " 
 " what do -PRON- take -PRON- ? " 
 " take nothing . get something . " 
 " what do gretel give -PRON- ? " 
 " give -PRON- a knife . " 
 " where be the knife , han ? " 
 " stuck in -PRON- sleeve . " 
 " that be stupid , han . -PRON- should have put the knife in -PRON- pocket . " 
 " do n't matter . do good . " 
 " where be -PRON- go , han ? " 
 " to gretel 's , mother . " 
 " behave -PRON- , han . " 
 " behave -PRON- . good - bye , mother . " 
 " good - bye , han . " 
 han come to gretel 's . " good day , gretel . " 
 " good day , han . be -PRON- bring something good ? " 
 " bring nothing . want something . " 
 gretel give han a young goat . 
 " good - bye , gretel . " 
 " good - bye , han . " 
 hans take the goat , tie -PRON- leg , and put -PRON- in -PRON- pocket . when -PRON-   arrive home -PRON- have suffocate . 
 " good evening , mother . " 
 " good evening , han . where have -PRON- be ? " 
 " at gretel 's . " 
 " what do -PRON- take -PRON- ? " 
 " take nothing . get something . " 
 " what do gretel give -PRON- ? " 
 -PRON- give -PRON- a goat . 
 " where be the goat , han ? " 
 " put -PRON- in -PRON- pocket . " 
 " that be stupid , han . -PRON- should have tie a rope around the goat 's   neck . " 
 " do n't matter . do good . " 
 " where be -PRON- go , han ? " 
 " to gretel 's , mother . " 
 " behave -PRON- , han . " 
 " behave -PRON- . good - bye , mother . " 
 " good - bye , han . " 
 han come to gretel 's . 
 " good day , gretel . " 
 " good day , han . be -PRON- bring something good ? " 
 " bring nothing . want something . " 
 gretel give han a piece of bacon . 
 " good - bye , gretel . " 
 " good - bye , han . " 
 hans take the bacon , tie a rope around -PRON- , and drag -PRON- along behind   -PRON- . the dog come and eat the bacon . when -PRON- arrive home -PRON- have the rope   in -PRON- hand , but there be no longer anything tie to -PRON- . 
 " good evening , mother . " 
 " good evening , han . where have -PRON- be ? " 
 " at gretel 's . " 
 " what do -PRON- take -PRON- ? " 
 " take nothing . get something . " 
 " what do gretel give -PRON- ? " 
 " give -PRON- a piece of bacon . " 
 " where be the bacon , han ? " 
 " tie -PRON- to a rope . bring -PRON- home . dog get -PRON- . " 
 " that be stupid , han . -PRON- should have carry the bacon on -PRON- head . " 
 " do n't matter . do good . " 
 " where be -PRON- go , han ? " 
 " to gretel 's , mother . " 
 " behave -PRON- , han . " 
 " behave -PRON- . good - bye , mother . " 
 " good - bye , han . " 
 han come to gretel 's . " good day , gretel . " 
 " good day , han . be -PRON- bring something good ? " 
 " bring nothing . want something . " 
 gretel give han a calf . 
 " good - bye , gretel . " 
 " good - bye , han . " 
 hans take the calf , put -PRON- on -PRON- head , and the calf kick -PRON- face . 
 " good evening , mother . " 
 " good evening , han . where have -PRON- be ? " 
 " at gretel 's . " 
 " what do -PRON- take -PRON- ? " 
 " take nothing . get something . " 
 " what do gretel give -PRON- ? " 
 " give -PRON- a calf . " 
 " where be the calf , han ? " 
 " put -PRON- on -PRON- head . kick -PRON- face . " 
 " that be stupid , han . -PRON- should have lead the calf , and take -PRON- to the   hayrack . " 
 " do n't matter . do good . " 
 " where be -PRON- go , han ? " 
 " to gretel 's , mother . " 
 " behave -PRON- , han . " 
 " behave -PRON- . good - bye , mother . " 
 " good - bye , mother . " 
 " good - bye , han . " 
 han come to gretel 's . " good day , gretel . " 
 " good day , han . be -PRON- bring something good ? " 
 " bring nothing . want something . " 
 gretel say to han , " i will go with -PRON- . " 
 hans take gretel , tie -PRON- to a rope , lead -PRON- to the hayrack and bind   -PRON- fast . then han go to -PRON- mother . 
 " good evening , mother . " 
 " good evening , han . where have -PRON- be ? " 
 " at gretel 's . " 
 " what do -PRON- take -PRON- ? " 
 " take nothing . get something . " 
 " what do gretel give -PRON- ? " 
 " give -PRON- nothing . come with -PRON- . " 
 " where do -PRON- leave gretel ? " 
 " lead -PRON- on a rope . tie -PRON- to the hayrack . throw -PRON- some grass . " 
 " that be stupid , han . -PRON- should have cast friendly eye at -PRON- . " 
 " do n't matter . do good . " 
 hans go into the stable , cut out the eye of all the calf and sheep ,   and throw -PRON- in gretel 's face . then gretel become angry , tear -PRON-   loose and run away . -PRON- be no longer han 's bride . 

 frau trude 

 -PRON- parent strictly forbid -PRON- , say : " frau trude be a wicked woman who commit godless act .   if -PRON- go there , -PRON- will no longer be -PRON- child . 
 but the girl pay no attention to -PRON- parent and go to frau trude 's place anyway . 
 when -PRON- arrive there , frau trude ask : " why be -PRON- so pale ? " 
 " oh , " -PRON- answer , tremble all over , " i see something that frighten -PRON- . " 
 " what do -PRON- see ? " 
 " i see a black man on -PRON- step . " 
 " that be a charcoal burner . " 
 " then i see a green man . " 
 " that be a huntsman . " 
 " then i see a blood - red man . " 
 " that be a butcher . " 
 " oh , frau trude , -PRON- frighten -PRON- when i look through -PRON- window and could not see -PRON- , but instead see the devil with a head of fire . " 
 " aha ! " -PRON- say .   " so -PRON- see the witch properly outfit .   i have be wait for -PRON- and want -PRON- for a long time .   light the way for -PRON- now ! " 
 with that -PRON- turn to girl into a block of wood and throw -PRON- into the fire .   when -PRON- be thoroughly aglow -PRON- sit down next to -PRON- , and warm -PRON- by -PRON- , say : " -PRON- give such a bright light ! " 


 the tailor in heaven 

 " i be a poor , honest tailor who be request admission , " reply a   pleasant voice . 
 " honest indeed , " say peter . " like the thief on the gallow . -PRON- have be   sticky - finger and have rob people of   -PRON- cloth . -PRON- will not get   into heaven . the lord have forbid -PRON- to let anyone in as long -PRON- be   out . " 
 " oh , please be merciful , " cry the tailor . " little scrap that fall off   the table by -PRON- be not steal , and be not worth mention . see   here , i be limp and have blister on -PRON- foot from walk here . i   can not possibly go back again . just let -PRON- in , and i will do all the dirty   work . i will tend the child , wash -PRON- diaper , wipe off and clean the   bench on which -PRON- have be play , and patch all -PRON- tear   clothe . " 
 saint peter let -PRON- be move by pity and open heaven 's gate just   wide enough for the lame tailor to slip -PRON- lean body inside . -PRON- have to   take a seat in a corner behind the door , and be tell to stay there   quietly and peacefully , so that the lord would not notice -PRON- when -PRON-   return , and become angry . 
 the tailor obey , but one time when saint peter step outside the door ,   -PRON- get up , and full of curiosity , look into every corner of heaven ,   see what be there . finally -PRON- come to a place where there be many   beautiful and costly chair . at -PRON- center be a seat make entirely of   gold and set with glisten precious stone . -PRON- stand much high than   the other chair , and a golden footstool stand in front of -PRON- . this be   the seat on which the lord sit when -PRON- be at home , and from which -PRON-   could see everything that be happen on earth . 
 the tailor stand still , and look at the seat for a long time , for -PRON-   like -PRON- good than all the rest . finally -PRON- could control -PRON- curiosity   no longer , and -PRON- climb up and sit down on -PRON- . from there -PRON- see   everything that be happen on earth . 
 -PRON- notice an ugly old woman who   be stand beside a stream do the laundry . -PRON- secretly set two   scarf aside . see this make the tailor so angry that -PRON- take hold of   the golden footstool and throw -PRON- at the old thief , through heaven down to   earth . unable to bring the stool back again , -PRON- quietly sneak down from   the seat , sit back down in -PRON- place behind the door , and pretend that   -PRON- have do nothing at all . 
 when the lord and master return with -PRON- heavenly attendant , -PRON- do not   notice the tailor behind the door , but when -PRON- sit down on -PRON- seat , the   footstool be miss . -PRON- ask saint peter what have become of the   footstool , but -PRON- do not know . then -PRON- ask if -PRON- have admit anyone . 
 " i know of no one who have be here , " answer peter , " except for a lame   tailor , who be still sit behind the door . " 
 then the lord have the tailor bring before -PRON- , and ask -PRON- if -PRON- have   take the footstool , and where -PRON- have put -PRON- . 
 " oh , lord , " answer the tailor joyously , " in -PRON- anger i throw -PRON- down to   earth at an old woman whom i see steal two scarf while do the   laundry . " 
 " oh , -PRON- scoundrel , " say the lord , " if i be to judge as -PRON- judge , how   would -PRON- have go with -PRON- ? i would have long since have no chair ,   bench , seat , no , not even a stove - poker , but would have throw   everything down at the sinner . -PRON- can no longer stay in heaven , but   must go outside the gate again . from there watch where -PRON- be go . here   no one met out punishment , except for -PRON- alone , the lord . " 
 peter have to take the tailor out of heaven again , and because -PRON- shoe   be wear out and -PRON- foot be cover with blister , -PRON- take a stick in   -PRON- hand and go to wait - a - while , where the good soldier sit and make   merry . 

 table - be - set , 
 gold - donkey , and 
 cudgel - out - of - the - sack 

 once the eld take -PRON- to the churchyard , where the fine herb be to be find , and let -PRON- eat and run about there . at night when -PRON- be time to go home -PRON- ask , " goat , have -PRON- have enough ? " 
 the goat answer , 
 " come home , then , " say the youth , and take hold of the cord around -PRON- neck , lead -PRON- into the stable , and tie -PRON- up securely . 
 " well , " say the old tailor , " have the goat have as much food as -PRON- ought ? " 
 " oh , " answer the son , " -PRON- have eat so much , not a leaf more -PRON- will touch . " 
 but the father wish to satisfy -PRON- , and go down to the stable , stroke the dear animal , and ask , " goat , be -PRON- satisfied ? " 
 the goat answer , 
 " what do i hear ? " cry the tailor , and run upstairs and say to the youth , " hey , -PRON- liar , -PRON- say the goat have have enough , and have let -PRON- hunger . " and in -PRON- anger -PRON- take the yardstick from the wall , and drive -PRON- out with blow . 
 next day -PRON- be the turn of the second son , who seek a place next to the garden hedge where nothing but good herb grow , and the goat gobble -PRON- all up . at night when -PRON- want to go home , -PRON- ask , " goat , be -PRON- satisfied ? " 
 " come home then , " say the youth , and lead -PRON- home , and tie -PRON- up in the stable . 
 " well , " say the old tailor , " have the goat have as much food as -PRON- ought ? " 
 " oh , " answer the son , " -PRON- have eat so much , not a leaf more -PRON- will touch . " 
 the tailor would not rely on this , but go down to the stable and say , " goat , have -PRON- have enough ? " 
 the goat answer , 
 " the godless wretch ! " cry the tailor , to let such a good animal hunger , and -PRON- run up and drive the youth out of door with the yardstick . 
 now come the turn of the third son , who want to do -PRON- duty well , and seek out some bush with the fine leaf , and let the goat devour -PRON- . in the evening when -PRON- want to go home , -PRON- ask , " goat , have -PRON- have enough ? " 
 the goat answer , 
 " come home then , " say the youth , and lead -PRON- into the stable , and tie -PRON- up . 
 " well , " say the old tailor , " have the goat have -PRON- full share of food ? " 
 " -PRON- have eat so much , not a leaf more -PRON- will touch . " 
 the tailor be distrustful , go down , and ask , " goat , have -PRON- have enough ? " 
 the wicked beast answer , 
 " oh , the brood of liar ! " cry the tailor , " each as wicked and forgetful of -PRON- duty as the other . -PRON- shall no longer make a fool of -PRON- ! " and quite beside -PRON- with anger , -PRON- run upstairs and tan the poor young fellow 's back so vigorously with the yardstick that -PRON- leap out of the house . 
 the old tailor be now alone with -PRON- goat . next morning -PRON- go down into the stable , stroke the goat and say , " come , -PRON- dear little animal , i -PRON- will take -PRON- to feed . " -PRON- take -PRON- by the rope and lead -PRON- to green hedge , and amongst yarrow and whatev else goat like to eat . " here -PRON- may for once eat to -PRON- heart 's content , " -PRON- say to -PRON- , and let -PRON- browse till evening . then -PRON- ask , " goat , be -PRON- satisfied ? " 
 -PRON- answer , 
 " come home then , " say the tailor , and lead -PRON- into the stable , and tie -PRON- fast . when -PRON- be go away , -PRON- turn around again and say , " well , be -PRON- satisfied for once ? " 
 but the goat behave no good for -PRON- , and cry , 
 when the tailor hear that , -PRON- be shocked , and see clearly that -PRON- have drive away -PRON- three son without cause . " wait , -PRON- ungrateful creature , " -PRON- cry , " -PRON- be not enough to drive -PRON- away , i will brand -PRON- so that -PRON- will no more dare to show -PRON- amongst honest tailor . " -PRON- quickly run upstairs , fetch -PRON- razor , lather the goat 's head , and shave -PRON- as clean as the palm of -PRON- hand . and as the yardstick would have be too honorable for -PRON- , -PRON- grab a whip , and give -PRON- such blow with -PRON- that -PRON- bound away with tremendous leap . 
 when the tailor be thus leave quite alone in -PRON- house -PRON- fall into great grief , and would gladly have have -PRON- son back again , but no one know where -PRON- be go . 
 the eld have apprentice -PRON- to a joiner , and learn industriously and tirelessly , and when the time come for -PRON- to be on -PRON- way , -PRON- master present -PRON- with a little table which be not particularly beautiful , and be make of common wood , but which have one good property . if anyone set -PRON- out , and say , " table be set , " the good little table be at once cover with a clean little cloth , and a plate be there , and a knife and fork beside -PRON- , and dish with boil meat and roasted meat , as many as there be room for , and a great glass of red wine shone , so that -PRON- make the heart glad . 
 the young journeyman think , " with this -PRON- have enough for -PRON- whole life , " and go joyously about the world and never trouble -PRON- at all whether an inn be good or bad , or if anything be to be find in -PRON- or not . when -PRON- suit -PRON- , -PRON- do not enter an inn at all , but either on the plain , in a wood , a meadow , or wherever -PRON- fancy , -PRON- take -PRON- little table off -PRON- back , set -PRON- down before -PRON- , and say , " table be set , " and then everything appear that -PRON- heart desire . 
 at length -PRON- take -PRON- into -PRON- head to go back to -PRON- father , whose anger would now be appease , and who would now willingly receive -PRON- with -PRON- magic table . -PRON- come to pass that on -PRON- way home , -PRON- come one evening to an inn which be fill with guest . -PRON- bid -PRON- welcome , and invite -PRON- to sit and eat with -PRON- , for otherwise -PRON- would have difficulty in get anything . 
 " no , " answer the joiner , " i will not take the few morsel out of -PRON- mouth . rather than that , -PRON- shall be -PRON- guest . " 
 -PRON- laugh , and think -PRON- be jest with -PRON- . -PRON- but place -PRON- wooden table in the middle of the room , and say , " table be set . " instantly -PRON- be cover with food , so good that the host could never have procure -PRON- , and the smell of -PRON- ascend pleasantly to the nostril of the guest . 
 " fall to , dear friend , " say the joiner , and the guest when -PRON- see that -PRON- mean -PRON- , do not need to be ask twice , but draw near , pull out -PRON- knife and attack -PRON- valiantly . and what surprise -PRON- the most be that when a dish become empty , a full one instantly take -PRON- place of -PRON- own accord . 
 the innkeeper stand in one corner and watch the affair . -PRON- do not at all know what to say , but think , " -PRON- could easily find a use for such a cook as that in -PRON- household . " 
 the joiner and -PRON- comrade make merry until late into the night . at length -PRON- lie down to sleep , and the young journeyman also go to bed , and set -PRON- magic table against the wall . the host 's thought , however , let -PRON- have no rest . -PRON- occur to -PRON- that there be a little old table in -PRON- backroom which look just like the journeyman 's and -PRON- bring -PRON- out , and carefully exchange -PRON- for the wishing table . next morning the joiner pay for -PRON- bed , take up -PRON- table , never think that -PRON- have get a false one , and go -PRON- way . 
 at midday -PRON- reach -PRON- father , who receive -PRON- with great joy . " well , -PRON- dear son , what have -PRON- learn ? " -PRON- say to -PRON- . 
 " father , i have become a joiner . " 
 " a good trade , " reply the old man . " but what have -PRON- bring back with -PRON- from -PRON- apprenticeship ? " 
 " father , the good thing which i have bring back with -PRON- be this little table . " 
 the tailor inspect -PRON- on all side and say , " -PRON- do not make a masterpiece when -PRON- make this . -PRON- be a bad old table . " 
 " but -PRON- be a table - be - set , " reply the son . " when i set -PRON- out , and tell -PRON- to set -PRON- , the most beautiful dish immediately appear on -PRON- , and wine also , which gladden the heart . just invite all -PRON- relative and friend . -PRON- shall refresh and enjoy -PRON- for once , for the table will fill -PRON- all . " 
 when the company be assemble , -PRON- put -PRON- table in the middle of the room and say , " table be set , " but the little table do not move , and remain just as bare as any other table which do not understand language . then the poor journeyman become aware that -PRON- table have be change , and be ashamed at have to stand there like a liar . the relative , however , mock -PRON- , and be force to go home without have eat or drunk . 
 the father bring out -PRON- scrap again , and go on tailoring , but the son find work with a master joiner . 
 the second son have go to a miller and have apprentice -PRON- to -PRON- . when -PRON- year be over , the master say , " as -PRON- have conduct -PRON- so well , i give -PRON- a donkey of a peculiar kind , which neither draw a cart nor carry a sack . " 
 " what good be -PRON- then ? " ask the young journeyman . 
 " -PRON- spew forth gold , " answer the miller . " if -PRON- set -PRON- on a cloth and say ' bricklebrit , ' the good animal will spew forth gold piece for -PRON- from back and front . " 
 " that be a fine thing , " say the journeyman , and thank the master , and go out into the world . when -PRON- have need of gold , -PRON- have only to say " bricklebrit " to -PRON- donkey , and -PRON- rain gold piece , and -PRON- have nothing to do but pick -PRON- off the ground . wherever -PRON- go , the good of everything be good enough for -PRON- , and the more expensive the good , for -PRON- have always a full purse . when -PRON- have look about the world for some time , -PRON- think , " -PRON- must seek out -PRON- father . if -PRON- go to -PRON- with the gold - donkey -PRON- will forget -PRON- anger , and receive -PRON- well . " 
 -PRON- come to pass that -PRON- come to the same inn in which -PRON- brother 's table have be exchange . -PRON- lead -PRON- donkey by the bridle , and the host be about to take the animal from -PRON- and tie -PRON- up , but the young journeyman say , " do n't trouble -PRON- , i will take -PRON- nag into the stable , and tie -PRON- up -PRON- too , for i must know where -PRON- be . " 
 this strike the host as odd , and -PRON- think that a man who be force to look after -PRON- donkey -PRON- , could not have much to spend . but when the stranger put -PRON- hand in -PRON- pocket and bring out two gold piece , and say -PRON- be to provide something good for -PRON- , the host open -PRON- eye wide , and run and seek out the good -PRON- could muster . after dinner the guest ask what -PRON- owe . the innkeeper do not see why -PRON- should not double the bill , and say the journeyman must give two more gold piece . -PRON- feel in -PRON- pocket , but -PRON- gold be just at an end . 
 " wait an instant , sir , " say -PRON- , " i will go and fetch some money . " but -PRON- take the tablecloth with -PRON- . the innkeeper could not imagine what this mean , and be curious , steal after -PRON- , and as the guest bolt the stable door , -PRON- peep through a hole leave by a knot in the wood . 
 the stranger spread out the cloth under the animal and cry , " bricklebrit , " and immediately the beast begin to let gold piece fall from back and front , so that -PRON- fairly rain down money onto the ground . 
 " eh , -PRON- word , " say the innkeeper . " ducat be quickly coin there . a purse like that be not bad . " the guest pay -PRON- bill and go to bed , but in the night the innkeeper steal down into the stable , lead away the master of the mint , and tie up another donkey in -PRON- place . 
 early next morning the journeyman travel away with -PRON- donkey , and think that -PRON- have -PRON- gold - donkey . at midday -PRON- reach -PRON- father , who rejoice to see -PRON- again , and gladly take -PRON- in . 
 " what have -PRON- make of -PRON- , -PRON- son ? " ask the old man . 
 " a miller , dear father , " -PRON- answer . 
 " what have -PRON- bring back with -PRON- from -PRON- travel . " 
 " nothing else but a donkey . " 
 " there be donkey enough here , " say the father , " i would rather have have a good goat . " 
 " yes , " reply the son , " but -PRON- be no common donkey , but a gold - donkey . when i say ' bricklebrit ' the good beast spew forth a whole sheetful of gold piece . just summon all -PRON- relative here , and i will make -PRON- rich folk . " 
 " that suit -PRON- well , " say the tailor , " for then i shall have no need to torment -PRON- any longer with the needle , " and -PRON- -PRON- run out and call the relative together . as soon as -PRON- be assemble , the miller bid -PRON- make way , spread out -PRON- cloth , and bring the donkey into the room . 
 " now watch , " say -PRON- , and cry , " bricklebrit , " but what fall be not gold piece , and -PRON- be clear that the animal know nothing of the art , for not every donkey attain such perfection . then the poor miller make a long face , see that -PRON- have be betray , and beg pardon of the relative , who go home as poor as -PRON- come . there be no help for -PRON- , the old man have to take up -PRON- needle once more , and the youth hire -PRON- to a miller . 
 the third brother have apprentice -PRON- to a turner , and as that be skilled labor , -PRON- be the long in learn . -PRON- brother , however , tell -PRON- in a letter how badly thing have go with -PRON- , and how the innkeeper have cheat -PRON- of -PRON- beautiful wishing gift on the last evening before -PRON- reach home . when the turner have serve -PRON- time , and be about to set forth , as -PRON- have conduct -PRON- so well , -PRON- master present -PRON- with a sack say , " there be a cudgel in -PRON- . " 
 " i can take the sack with -PRON- , " say -PRON- , " and -PRON- may serve -PRON- well , but why should the cudgel be in -PRON- . -PRON- only make -PRON- heavy . " 
 " i will tell -PRON- why , " reply the master . " if anyone have do anything to injure -PRON- , do but say , ' cudgel out of the sack , ' and the cudgel will leap forth among the people , and play such a dance on -PRON- back that -PRON- will not be able to stir or move for a week . and -PRON- will not quit until -PRON- say , ' cudgel into the sack . ' " 
 the journeyman thank -PRON- , and put the sack on -PRON- back , and when anyone come too near -PRON- and wish to attack -PRON- , -PRON- say , " cudgel out of the sack , " and instantly the cudgel spring out and beat the dust out of -PRON- coat and jacket , right on -PRON- back , not wait until -PRON- have take -PRON- off , and -PRON- be do so quickly , that before anyone be aware , -PRON- be already -PRON- own turn . 
 in the evening the young turner reach the inn where -PRON- brother have be cheat . -PRON- lay -PRON- sack on the table before -PRON- , and begin to talk of all the wonderful thing which -PRON- have see in the world . " yes , " say -PRON- , " table - be - set , gold - donkey , and thing of that kind -- extremely good thing which i by no mean despise -- but these be nothing in comparison with the treasure which i have obtain and be carry about with -PRON- here in -PRON- sack . " 
 the innkeeper prick up -PRON- ear . " what in the world can that be ? " -PRON- think . " the sack must be fill with nothing but jewel . i ought to get -PRON- cheap too , for all good thing come in three . " 
 when -PRON- be time for sleep , the guest stretch -PRON- out on the bench , lay -PRON- sack beneath -PRON- for a pillow . when the innkeeper think -PRON- guest be lie in a sound sleep , -PRON- go to -PRON- and push and pull quite gently and carefully at the sack to see if -PRON- could possibly take -PRON- away and lie another in -PRON- place . 
 the turner , however , have be wait for this for a long time , and now just as the innkeeper be about to give a hearty tug , -PRON- cry , " cudgel out of the sack ! " 
 instantly the little cudgel come forth , and fall on the innkeeper give -PRON- a sound thrashing . the innkeeper cry for mercy , but the louder -PRON- cry , the hard the cudgel beat the time on -PRON- back , until at length -PRON- fall to the ground exhaust . 
 then the turner say , " if -PRON- do not give back the table - be - set and the gold - donkey , the dance shall start again from the beginning . " 
 " oh , no ! " cry the innkeeper , quite humbly , " i will gladly give everything back , only make the accursed kobold creep back into the sack . " 
 then the journeyman say , " i will let mercy take the place of justice , but beware of get into mischief again " then -PRON- cry , " cudgel into the sack , " and let -PRON- rest . 
 next morning the turner go home to -PRON- father with the table - be - set , and the gold - donkey . the tailor rejoice when -PRON- see -PRON- once more , and ask -PRON- likewise what -PRON- have learn in foreign part . " dear father , " say -PRON- , " i have become a turner . " 
 " a skilled trade , " say the father . " what have -PRON- bring back with -PRON- from -PRON- travel ? " 
 " a precious thing , dear father , " reply the son , " a cudgel in the sack . " 
 " what ! " cry the father , " a cudgel ! that be worth -PRON- trouble ! from every tree -PRON- can cut -PRON- one . " 
 " but not one like this , dear father . if i say , ' cudgel out of the sack , ' the cudgel spring out and lead anyone ill - disposed toward -PRON- a weary dance , and never stop until -PRON- lie on the ground and pray for fair weather . look -PRON- , with this cudgel have i rescue the table - be - set and the gold - donkey which the thievish innkeeper take away from -PRON- brother . now let -PRON- both be send for , and invite all -PRON- relative . i will give -PRON- to eat and to drink , and will fill -PRON- pocket with gold as well . " 
 the old tailor have not much confidence . nevertheless -PRON- summon the relative together . then the turner spread a cloth in the room and lead in the gold - donkey , and say to -PRON- brother , " now , dear brother , speak to -PRON- . " 
 the miller say , " bricklebrit , " and instantly the gold piece rain down on the cloth like a cloudburst , and the donkey do not stop until every one of -PRON- have so much that -PRON- could carry no more . ( i can see by -PRON- face that -PRON- would have like to be there as well . ) 
 then the turner bring out the little table and say , " now , dear brother , speak to -PRON- . " and scarcely have the joiner say , " table be set , " than -PRON- be spread and amply cover with the most exquisite dish . then such a meal take place as the good tailor have never yet know in -PRON- house , and the whole party of relative stay together until after nightfall , and be all merry and glad . the tailor lock -PRON- needle and thread and yardstick and press iron into a chest , and live with -PRON- three son in joy and splendor . 
 what , however , happen to the goat who be to blame for the tailor drive out -PRON- three son ? that i will tell -PRON- . 
 -PRON- be ashamed that -PRON- have a bald head , and run to a fox 's hole and creep into -PRON- . when the fox come home , -PRON- be meet by two great eye shin out of the darkness , and be terrify and run away . a bear meet -PRON- , and as the fox look quite disturbed , -PRON- say , " what be the matter with -PRON- , brother fox , why do -PRON- look like that ? " 
 " ah , " answer redskin , " a fierce beast be in -PRON- cave and star at -PRON- with -PRON- fiery eye . " 
 " -PRON- will soon drive -PRON- out , " say the bear , and go with -PRON- to the cave and look in , but when -PRON- see the fiery eye , fear seize on -PRON- likewise . -PRON- would have nothing to do with the furious beast , and take to -PRON- heel . 
 the bee meet -PRON- , and as -PRON- see that -PRON- be ill at ease , -PRON- say , " bear , -PRON- be really pull a very pitiful face . what have become of all -PRON- cheerfulness ? " 
 " -PRON- be all very well for -PRON- to talk , " reply the bear . " a furious beast with staring eye be in redskin 's house , and -PRON- can not drive -PRON- out . " 
 the bee say , " bear , i pity -PRON- . i be a poor weak creature whom -PRON- would not turn aside to look at , but still , i believe i can help -PRON- . " -PRON- fly into the fox 's cave , lit on the goat 's smoothly shorn head , and sting -PRON- so violently , that -PRON- spring up , cry " meh , meh , " and run forth into the world as if mad , and to this hour no one know where -PRON- have go . 

 mrs . fox 's wedding 

 mrs . fox lock -PRON- in -PRON- room , and -PRON- maid , mis cat , sit on the hearth and cook . 
 as soon as -PRON- become know that the old fox have die , suitor begin to appear . the maid hear someone knock at the front door . -PRON- open -PRON- , and there stand a young fox , who say : 
 -PRON- answer : 
 " no thank -PRON- , mis , " say the fox . " what be mrs . fox do ? " 
 the maid answer : 
 " miss , tell -PRON- that a young fox be here who would like to court -PRON- . " 
 " i 'll do that , young man . " 
 the cat go upstairs and knock on the door . 
 " mrs . fox , be -PRON- there ? " 
 " yes , -PRON- dear , yes . " 
 " a suitor be outside . " 
 " what do -PRON- look like ? do -PRON- have nine bushy tail like the late mr . fox ? " 
 " no , " answer the cat . " -PRON- have but one . " 
 " then -PRON- will not have -PRON- . " 
 mis cat go downstairs and send the suitor away . 
 soon afterward there be another knock at the door . another fox be there who want to court mrs . fox . -PRON- have two tail , but -PRON- do not fare any good than the first one . then other come , each with one additional tail , but all be turn away until finally one come who have nine tail , just like old mr . fox . when the widow hear that , -PRON- speak joyfully to the cat : 
 -PRON- be just about to celebrate the wedding when beneath the bench old mr . fox begin to stir . -PRON- attack the entire party with blow and drive -PRON- all out of the house , include mrs . fox . 
 follow the death of old mr . fox , the wolf present -PRON- as a suitor . the cat , who be serve as mrs . fox 's maid , open the door . the wolf greet -PRON- , say : 
 the cat answer : 
 " no thank -PRON- , mrs . cat . " answer the wolf . " be n't mrs . fox at home ? " 
 the cat say : 
 the wolf answer : 
 mrs . fox ask , " be the gentleman wear red breech , and do -PRON- have a pointed little face ? " 
 " no , " answer the cat . 
 " then -PRON- be of no use to -PRON- . " 
 after the wolf have be send away there come a dog , a deer , a hare , a bear , a lion , and all the other animal of the forest , one after the other . but each one lack one of the good quality that old mr . fox have have , and the cat have to send each of the suitor away . finally a young fox come . 
 mrs . fox ask , " be the gentleman wear red breech , and do -PRON- have a pointed little face ? " 
 " yes , " say the cat , " that -PRON- do . " 
 " then let -PRON- come upstairs , " say mrs . fox , and -PRON- tell the maid to make preparation for the wedding feast . 
 then mrs . fox marry young mr . fox , and everyone dance and celebrate , and if -PRON- have not stop , then -PRON- be dance still . 

 the elf 

 one evening shortly before christma , just before go to bed , and have   already cut out a number of shoe , -PRON- say to -PRON- wife , " why do not -PRON- stay   up tonight and see who be give -PRON- this help hand . " 
 -PRON- wife agree to this and light a candle . then -PRON- hide -PRON- behind   some clothe that be hang in a corner of the room . at midnight two   cute little naked man appear . sit down at the workbench , -PRON- pick   up the cut - out piece and work so unbelievable quickly and nimbly that   the amazed shoemaker could not take -PRON- eye from -PRON- . -PRON- do not stop   until -PRON- have finish everything . -PRON- place the complete shoe on the   workbench , then quickly run away . 
 the next morning the wife say , " the little man have make -PRON- wealthy . -PRON-   must show -PRON- -PRON- thank . -PRON- be run around with nothing on ,   freezing . do -PRON- know what ? i want to sew some shirt , jacket ,   undershirt , and trouser for -PRON- , and knit a pair of stocking for each   of -PRON- , and -PRON- should make a pair of shoe for each of -PRON- . " 
 the husband say , " i agree , " and that evening , when everything be   finish , -PRON- set the present out instead of the unfinished work . then   -PRON- hide -PRON- in order to see what the little man would do . at   midnight -PRON- come skip up , intend to start work immediately . when   -PRON- see the little clothe instead of the cut - out leather , -PRON- at first   seem puzzled , but then delight . -PRON- quickly put -PRON- on , then   stroke the beautiful clothe on -PRON- body -PRON- sing : 

 then -PRON- hop and dance about , jump over chair and bench .   finally -PRON- dance out of the house . -PRON- never return , but the   shoemaker prosper , succeed in everything that -PRON- do . 


 at first the girl do not know what -PRON- should do , but finally -PRON-   convince -PRON- to accept . -PRON- would not be right , -PRON- say , to decline such   an invitation . 
 three elf come and lead -PRON- to a hollow mountain where the little people   live . everything there be small , but more ornate and splendid than can   be describe . the new mother be lie in a bed of ebony decorate with   pearl button . the cover be embroider with gold . the cradle be make   of ivory , and the bathtub of gold . the girl stand in as godmother , and   then want to go back home , but the elf ask -PRON- fervently to stay   with -PRON- for three day . -PRON- agree to do so , and the time pass    pleasantly and joyfully . the little people do everything to make -PRON-   happy . 
 finally -PRON- want to return home . -PRON- fill -PRON- pocket with gold and   lead -PRON- outside the mountain . -PRON- arrive home . want to begin -PRON- work ,   -PRON- pick up the broom that be still stand in the corner and start   to sweep . then some strange people come out of the house and ask -PRON- who   -PRON- be and what -PRON- be do there . -PRON- be not three day , as -PRON-   think , that -PRON- have spend in the mountain with the little man , but   rather seven year . in the meantime -PRON- former employer have die . 



 and -PRON- begin laugh about -PRON- . when -PRON- laugh , a band of little elf   suddenly appear . -PRON- bring the rightful child , set -PRON- on the hearth ,   and take the changel away . 

 the robber bridegroom 

 not long afterward a suitor come who appear to be very rich , and   because the miller could find no fault with -PRON- , -PRON- promise -PRON- daughter   to -PRON- . 
 the girl , however , do not like -PRON- as much as a bride should like -PRON-   bridegroom . -PRON- do not trust -PRON- , and whenever -PRON- see -PRON- or think   about -PRON- , -PRON- feel within -PRON- heart a sense of horror . 
 one time -PRON- say to -PRON- , " -PRON- be engage to marry -PRON- , but -PRON- have   never once pay -PRON- a visit . " 
 the girl reply , " i do not know where -PRON- house be . " 
 then the bridegroom say , " -PRON- house be out in the dark wood . " 
 look for an excuse , -PRON- say that -PRON- would not be able to find the   way there . 
 the bridegroom say , " next sunday -PRON- must come out to -PRON- . i have   already invite guest . i will make a trail of ash , so that -PRON- can find   -PRON- way through the wood . " 
 when sunday come , and -PRON- be time for the girl to start on -PRON- way , -PRON-   become frightened , although -PRON- -PRON- do not know exactly why . in order   to mark the path , -PRON- fill both -PRON- pocket full of pea and lentil . at   the entrance of the forest there be a trail of ash , which -PRON- follow ,   but at every step -PRON- throw a couple of pea to the ground , to the right   and to the left . -PRON- walk almost the whole day until -PRON- come to the   middle of the wood , where -PRON- be the dark , and there stand a solitary   house . -PRON- do not like -PRON- , because -PRON- look so dark and sinister . -PRON-   go inside , but no one be there . -PRON- be totally quiet . 
 suddenly a voice call out : 
 " could -PRON- tell -PRON- , " say the girl , " if -PRON- bridegroom live here ? " 
 " oh , -PRON- poor child , " reply the old woman , " where do -PRON- come from ?   -PRON- be in a murderer 's den . -PRON- think -PRON- be a bride soon to be marry ,   but -PRON- be death that -PRON- will be marry . look , -PRON- make -PRON- put a large   kettle of water on the fire . when -PRON- have capture -PRON- , -PRON- will chop   -PRON- to piece without mercy , cook -PRON- , and eat -PRON- , for -PRON- be   cannibal . if i do not show -PRON- compassion and save -PRON- , -PRON- be doom . " 
 with this the old woman lead -PRON- behind a large barrel where -PRON- could   not be see . 
 " be quiet as a mouse . " -PRON- say . " do not make a sound or move , or all   will be over with -PRON- . tonight when the robber be asleep -PRON- will escape .   i have long wait for an opportunity . " 
 this have scarcely happen when the godless band come home . -PRON- be   drag with -PRON- another maiden . -PRON- be drunk and pay no attention   to -PRON- scream and sob . 
 -PRON- give -PRON- wine to drink , three glass full , one glass of white ,   one glass of red , and one glass of yellow , which cause -PRON- heart to   break . then -PRON- rip off -PRON- fine clothe , lay -PRON- on a table , chop   -PRON- beautiful body in piece and sprinkle salt on -PRON- . the poor bride   behind the barrel tremble and shake , for -PRON- see well what fate the   robber have plan for -PRON- . 
 one of -PRON- notice a gold ring on the murder girl 's little finger .   because -PRON- do not come off easily , -PRON- take an ax and chop the finger   off , but -PRON- fly into the air and over the barrel , fall right into the   bride 's lap . the robber take a light and look for -PRON- , but could not find   -PRON- . 
 then another one say , " do -PRON- look behind the large barrel ? " 
 but the old woman cry out , " come and eat . -PRON- can continue look in   the morning . that finger will not run away from -PRON- . " 
 then the robber say , " the old woman be right . " -PRON- give up -PRON-   search and sit down to eat . the old woman pour a sleeping - potion into   -PRON- wine , so that -PRON- soon lie down in the cellar and fall asleep ,   snoring . 
 when the bride hear -PRON- snore -PRON- come out from behind the barrel ,   and have to step over the sleeper , for -PRON- lie all in row on the ground .   -PRON- be afraid that -PRON- may awaken one of -PRON- , but god help -PRON- , and   -PRON- get through safely . 
 the old woman go upstairs with -PRON- , open the door , and -PRON- hurry   out of the murderer 's den as fast as -PRON- could . 
 the wind have blow away the trail of ash , but the pea and lentil   have sprout and grow up , and show -PRON- the way in the moonlight . -PRON-   walk all night , arrive at the mill the next morning . then the girl   tell -PRON- father everything , just as -PRON- have happen . 
 when the wedding day come , the bridegroom appear . the miller have   invite all -PRON- relative and acquaintance . as -PRON- sit at the table ,   each one be ask to tell something . the bride sit still and say   nothing . 
 then the bridegroom say to the bride , " come , sweetheart , do not -PRON-   know anything ? tell -PRON- something , like the other have do . " 
 -PRON- answer : 
 with these word -PRON- pull out the finger and show -PRON- to everyone   who be there . 
 the robber , who have during this story become as white as chalk , jump   up and try to escape , but the guest hold -PRON- fast , and turn -PRON- over   to the court . then -PRON- and -PRON- whole band be execute for -PRON- shameful   deed . 

 herr korb 

 not long afterward -PRON- meet a cat , who say , " where be -PRON- go ? " 
 the rooster answer , " -PRON- be on -PRON- way to herr korbe 's house . " 
 " take -PRON- with -PRON- , " say the cat . 
 the rooster answer , " gladly . climb on behind , so -PRON- will not fall off   the front . be careful not to get -PRON- red wheel dirty . roll , wheel .   whistle , mouse . -PRON- be on -PRON- way to herr korbe 's house . " 
 then a millstone come along , then an egg , then a duck , then a pin , and   finally a needle . -PRON- all climb aboard the carriage and ride with -PRON- . 
 but when -PRON- arrive at herr korbes 's house , -PRON- be not there . the   mouse pull the carriage into the barn . the hen and the rooster fly onto   a pole . the cat sit down in the fireplace and the duck in the water   bucket . the egg roll -PRON- up in a towel . the pin stick -PRON- into a   chair cushion . the needle jump onto the bed in the middle of the pillow .   the millstone lie down above the door . 
 then herr korbe come home . -PRON- go to the fireplace , want to make a   fire , and the cat throw ash into -PRON- face . -PRON- run quickly into the   kitchen to wash -PRON- , and the duck splash water into -PRON- face . -PRON-   want to dry -PRON- off with the towel , but the egg roll against -PRON- ,   break , and glue -PRON- eye shut . want to rest , -PRON- sit down in the chair ,   and the pin prick -PRON- . -PRON- fall into a rage and throw -PRON- onto -PRON-   bed , but when -PRON- lay -PRON- head on the pillow , the needle prick -PRON- ,   cause -PRON- to scream and run out of the house . as -PRON- run through the   front door the millstone jump down and strike -PRON- dead . 
 herr korbe must have be a very wicked man . 

 the godfather 

 the stranger give -PRON- a little bottle of water , and say , " this be miraculous water . -PRON- can heal the sick with -PRON- . but -PRON- must see where death be stand . if -PRON- be stand by the patient 's head , give the patient some of the water and -PRON- will be heal , but if death be stand by -PRON- foot all effort will be in vain , for then the sick man must die . " 
 from this time forth , the man could always say whether a patient could be save or not . -PRON- become famous for -PRON- skill , and earn a great deal of money . once -PRON- be call in to the king 's child , and when -PRON- enter , -PRON- see death stand by the child 's head , and -PRON- cure -PRON- with the water . the same thing happen a second time , but the third time death be stand by -PRON- foot , so the child have to die . 
 now the man want to visit -PRON- godfather one time and tell -PRON- what have happen with the water . -PRON- enter the house , but the strange thing be go on there . on the first flight of stair , the dustpan and the broom be fight , and violently hit one other . 
 -PRON- ask -PRON- , " where do the godfather live ? " 
 the broom answer , " up one more flight of stair . " 
 when -PRON- come to the second flight , -PRON- see a heap of dead finger lie . -PRON- ask , " where do the godfather live ? " 
 one of the finger answer , " up one more flight of stair . " 
 on the third flight lie a heap of dead man 's head , and -PRON- direct -PRON- still another flight higher . on the fourth flight , -PRON- see fish on the fire , sizzle in a pan and bake -PRON- . -PRON- too say , " up one more flight of stair . " 
 and when -PRON- have climb the fifth , -PRON- come to the door of a room and peep through the keyhole . there -PRON- see the godfather who have a pair of long horn . when -PRON- open the door and go in , the godfather quickly get into bed and cover -PRON- up . 
 the man then say , " godfather , sir , strange thing be go on in -PRON- house . when i come to -PRON- first flight of stair , the dustpan and the broom be fight , and violently hit one another . " 
 " how stupid -PRON- be , " say the godfather . " that be the servant - boy and the maid talk to each other . " 
 " but on the second flight i see dead finger lie there . " 
 " oh , how silly -PRON- be . those be some root of scorzonera . " 
 " on the third flight lie a heap of dead man 's head . " 
 foolish man , those be head of cabbage . " 
 " on the fourth flight i see fish in a pan , which be sizzle and bake -PRON- . " when -PRON- have say that , the fish come and serve -PRON- up . 
 " and when i get to the fifth flight , i peep through the keyhole of a door , and there , godfather , i see -PRON- and -PRON- have long , long horn . " 
 " oh , that be not true . " 
 the man become frightened and run out , and if -PRON- have not do so , who know what the godfather would have do to -PRON- ? 

 frau trude 

 -PRON- parent strictly forbid -PRON- , say : " frau trude be a wicked woman who commit godless act .   if -PRON- go there , -PRON- will no longer be -PRON- child . 
 but the girl pay no attention to -PRON- parent and go to frau trude 's place anyway . 
 when -PRON- arrive there , frau trude ask : " why be -PRON- so pale ? " 
 " oh , " -PRON- answer , tremble all over , " i see something that frighten -PRON- . " 
 " what do -PRON- see ? " 
 " i see a black man on -PRON- step . " 
 " that be a charcoal burner . " 
 " then i see a green man . " 
 " that be a huntsman . " 
 " then i see a blood - red man . " 
 " that be a butcher . " 
 " oh , frau trude , -PRON- frighten -PRON- when i look through -PRON- window and could not see -PRON- , but instead see the devil with a head of fire . " 
 " aha ! " -PRON- say .   " so -PRON- see the witch properly outfit .   i have be wait for -PRON- and want -PRON- for a long time .   light the way for -PRON- now ! " 
 with that -PRON- turn to girl into a block of wood and throw -PRON- into the fire .   when -PRON- be thoroughly aglow -PRON- sit down next to -PRON- , and warm -PRON- by -PRON- , say : " -PRON- give such a bright light ! " 


 godfather death 

 the man say , " who be -PRON- ? " 
 " i be god . " 
 " then i do not wish to have -PRON- for a godfather , " say the man . " -PRON- give   to the rich , and let the poor starve . " 
 thus speak the man , for -PRON- do not know how wisely god divide out wealth   and poverty . then -PRON- turn away from the lord , and go on -PRON- way . 
 then the devil come to -PRON- and say , " what be -PRON- look for ? if -PRON-   will take -PRON- as -PRON- child 's godfather , i will give -PRON- an abundance of   gold and all the joy of the world as well . " 
 the man ask , " who be -PRON- ? " 
 " i be the devil . " 
 " then i do not wish to have -PRON- for a godfather , " say the man . -PRON-   deceive mankind and lead -PRON- astray . " 
 -PRON- go on -PRON- way , and then death , on -PRON- withered leg , come walk   toward -PRON- , and say , " take -PRON- as -PRON- child 's godfather . " 
 the man ask , " who be -PRON- ? " 
 " i be death , who make everyone equal . " 
 then the man say , " -PRON- be the right one . -PRON- take away the rich as well   as the poor , without distinction . -PRON- shall be -PRON- child 's godfather . 
 death answer , " i will make -PRON- child rich and famous , for -PRON- who have -PRON-   for a friend can not fail . " 
 the man say , " next sunday be the baptism . be there on time . " 
 death appear as -PRON- have promise , and serve as godfather in an orderly   manner . 
 after the boy come of age -PRON- godfather appear to -PRON- one day and ask   -PRON- to go with -PRON- . -PRON- take -PRON- out into the wood and show -PRON- an herb   that grow there , say , " now -PRON- shall receive -PRON- godfather 's present .   i will turn -PRON- into a famous physician . whenever -PRON- be call to a sick   person i will appear to -PRON- . if i stand at the sick person 's head , -PRON- may   say with confidence that -PRON- can make -PRON- well again ; then give -PRON- some   of this herb , and -PRON- will recover . but if i stand at the sick person 's   foot , -PRON- be mine , and -PRON- must say that -PRON- be beyond help , and that no   physician in the world could save -PRON- . but beware of use this herb   against -PRON- will , or something very bad will happen to -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- be not long before the young man have become the most famous physician   in the whole world . people say of -PRON- , " -PRON- only need to look at the sick   in order to immediately know -PRON- condition , whether -PRON- will regain   -PRON- health , or be doom to die . " and people come to -PRON- from far and   wide , take -PRON- to -PRON- sick , and give -PRON- so much money that -PRON- soon   become a wealthy man . 
 now -PRON- come to pass that the king become ill . the physician be summon   and be tell to say if a recovery be possible . however , when -PRON-   approach the bed , death be stand at the sick man 's foot , and so no   herb on earth would be able to help -PRON- . 
 " if i could only deceive death for once , " think the physician . " -PRON- will   be angry , of course , but because i be -PRON- godson -PRON- will shut one eye . i   will risk -PRON- . " -PRON- therefore take hold of the sick man and lay -PRON- the   other way around , so that death be now stand at -PRON- head . then -PRON- give   the king some of the herb , and -PRON- recover and become healthy again . 
 however , death come to the physician , make a dark and angry face ,   threaten -PRON- with -PRON- finger , and say , " -PRON- have betray -PRON- . i will   overlook -PRON- this time because -PRON- be -PRON- godson , but if -PRON- dare to do -PRON-   again , -PRON- will cost -PRON- -PRON- neck , for i will take -PRON- -PRON- away with   -PRON- . " 
 soon afterward the king 's daughter become seriously ill . -PRON- be -PRON- only   child , and -PRON- cry day and night until -PRON- eye be go blind . then -PRON-   proclaim that whosoever rescue -PRON- from death should become -PRON- husband   and inherit the crown . 
 when the physician come to the sick girl 's bed -PRON- see death at -PRON- foot .   -PRON- should have remember -PRON- godfather 's warning , but -PRON- be so   infatuate by the princess 's great beauty and the prospect of become -PRON-   husband that -PRON- throw all thought to the wind . -PRON- do not see that death   be look at -PRON- angrily , lift -PRON- hand into the air , and threaten   -PRON- with -PRON- withered fist . -PRON- lift up the sick girl and place -PRON- head   where -PRON- foot have be . then -PRON- give -PRON- some of the herb , and -PRON- cheek   immediately turn red , and life stir in -PRON- once again . 
 death , see that -PRON- have be cheat out of -PRON- property for a second   time , approach the physician with long stride and say , " -PRON- be   finish . now -PRON- be -PRON- turn . " 
 then death seize -PRON- so firmly with -PRON- ice - cold hand that -PRON- could not   resist , and lead -PRON- into an underground cavern . there the physician see   how thousand and thousand of candle be burn in endless row , some   large , other medium - sized , other small . every instant some die out , and   other be relit , so that the little flame seem to be jump about in   constant change . 
 " see , " say death , " these be the life - light of mankind . the large one   belong to child , the medium - sized one to married people in -PRON- good   year , and the little one to old people . however , even child and young   people often have only a tiny candle . " 
 " show -PRON- -PRON- life - light , " say the physician , think that -PRON- still would   be very large . 
 death point to a little stump that be just threaten to go out , and   say , " see , there -PRON- be . " 
 " oh , dear godfather , " say the horrified physician , " light a new one for   -PRON- . do -PRON- as a favor to -PRON- , so that i can enjoy -PRON- life , and become king   and the husband of the beautiful princess . " 
 " i can not , " answer death . " one must go out before a new one be light . " 
 " then set the old one onto a new one that will go on burn after the old   one be finish , " beg the physician . 
 death pretend that -PRON- be go to fulfill this wish and take hold of a   large new candle , but , desire   revenge , -PRON- purposely make a mistake in   relight -PRON- , and the little piece fall down and go out . the physician   immediately fall to the ground , and -PRON- too be now in the hand of death . 


 fitcher 's bird 

 everything be splendid in the house , and -PRON- give -PRON- everything that -PRON-   want . -PRON- say , " -PRON- dear , -PRON- will like -PRON- here with -PRON- . -PRON- will have   everything that -PRON- heart desire . " 
 so -PRON- go for a few day , and then -PRON- say to -PRON- , " i have to go away and   leave -PRON- alone for a short time . here be the house key . -PRON- may go   everywhere and look at everything except for the one room that this little   key here unlock . i forbid -PRON- to go there on the penalty of death . " 
 -PRON- also give -PRON- an egg , say , " take good care of this egg . -PRON- should   carry -PRON- with -PRON- at all time , for if -PRON- should loose -PRON- great   misfortune would follow . " 
 -PRON- take the key and the egg , and promise to take good care of   everything . 
 as soon as -PRON- have go -PRON- walk about in the house from top to bottom   examine everything . the room glisten with silver and gold , and -PRON-   think that -PRON- have never see such splendor . 
 finally -PRON- come to the forbid door . -PRON- want to pass -PRON- by , but   curiosity give -PRON- no rest . -PRON- examine the key . -PRON- look like any other   one . -PRON- put -PRON- into the lock and twist -PRON- a little , and then the door   spring open . 
 what do -PRON- see when -PRON- step inside ? a large bloody basin stand in   the middle , inside which there lie the cut up part of dead girl . nearby   there be a wooden block with a glisten ax lie on -PRON- . 
 -PRON- be so terrified that the egg , which -PRON- be hold in -PRON- hand , fall   into the basin . -PRON- get -PRON- out again and wipe off the blood , but -PRON- be   to no avail , for -PRON- always come back . -PRON- wipe and scrub , but -PRON-   could not get rid of the stain . 
 not long afterward the man return from -PRON- journey , and -PRON- immediately   ask for the key and the egg . -PRON- hand -PRON- to -PRON- , shake all the   while , for -PRON- see from the red stain that -PRON- have be in the blood   chamber . 
 " -PRON- go into that chamber against -PRON- will , " -PRON- say , " and now against   -PRON- will -PRON- shall go into -PRON- once again . -PRON- life be finish . " 
 -PRON- throw -PRON- down , drag -PRON- by -PRON- hair into the chamber , cut off -PRON-   head on the block , then cut -PRON- up into piece , and -PRON- blood flow out   onto the floor . then -PRON- throw -PRON- into the basin with the other . 
 " now i will go get the second one , " say the sorcerer , and , again   disguise as a poor man , -PRON- go to -PRON- house begging . 
 the second sister bring -PRON- a piece of bread , and , as -PRON- have do to the   first one , -PRON- capture -PRON- by merely touch -PRON- , and -PRON- carry -PRON-   away . -PRON- go with -PRON- no better than -PRON- have go with -PRON- sister . -PRON- let   -PRON- be lead astray by -PRON- curiosity , open the blood chamber and   look inside . when -PRON- return -PRON- pay with -PRON- life . 
 then -PRON- go and capture the third sister , but -PRON- be clever and sly .   after -PRON- have give -PRON- the key and the egg , and have go away , -PRON-   carefully put the egg aside , and then examine the house , enter finally   the forbid chamber . 
 oh , what -PRON- see ! -PRON- two dear sister be lie there in the basin ,   miserably murder and chop to piece . in spite of this -PRON- proceed   to gather -PRON- part together , place -PRON- back in order : head , body ,   arm , and leg . then , when nothing else be missing , the part begin to   move . -PRON- join together , and the two girl open -PRON- eye and come   back to life . rejoice , -PRON- kiss and hug one another . 
 when the man return home -PRON- immediately demand the key and the egg ,   and when -PRON- be unable to detect any trace of blood on -PRON- , -PRON- say , " -PRON-   have pass the test . -PRON- shall be -PRON- bride . " 
 -PRON- now have no more power over -PRON- and have to do whatev -PRON- demand . 
 " good , " -PRON- answer , " but first -PRON- must take a basketful of gold to -PRON-   father and mother . -PRON- -PRON- must carry -PRON- there on -PRON- back . in the   meanwhile i shall make preparation for the wedding . " 
 then -PRON- run to -PRON- sister , whom -PRON- have hide in a closet , and say ,   " the moment be here when i can rescue -PRON- . the evildoer -PRON- shall   carry -PRON- home . as soon as -PRON- have arrive at home send help to -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- put -PRON- both into a basket , then cover -PRON- entirely with gold , so   that nothing could be see of -PRON- . 
 then -PRON- call the sorcerer in and say , " now carry this basket away , but   -PRON- be not to stop and rest underway . take care , for i shall be watch   -PRON- through -PRON- little window . " 
 the sorcerer lift the basket onto -PRON- back and walk away with -PRON- .   however , -PRON- press down so heavily on -PRON- that the sweat run from -PRON-   face . -PRON- sit down , want to rest , but immediately one of the girl in   the basket call out , " i be look through -PRON- little window , and i can   see that -PRON- be rest . walk on ! " 
 -PRON- think that -PRON- bride be call to -PRON- , so -PRON- get up again . then -PRON-   again want to sit down , but someone immediately call out , " i be   look through -PRON- little window , and i can see that -PRON- be rest . walk   on ! " 
 every time that -PRON- stop walk , someone call out , and -PRON- have to walk   on until , groaning and out of breath , -PRON- bring the basket with the gold   and the two girl to -PRON- parent ' house . 
 at home the bride be make preparation for the wedding feast , to which   -PRON- have have the sorcerer 's friend invite . then -PRON- take a skull with   grin tooth , adorn -PRON- with jewelry and with a wreath of flower ,   carry -PRON- to the attic window , and let -PRON- look out . 
 when everything be ready -PRON- dip -PRON- into a barrel of honey , then   cut open the bed and roll around in -PRON- until -PRON- look like a strange   bird , and no one would have be able to recognize -PRON- . then -PRON- walk   out of the house . 
 underway some of the wedding guest meet -PRON- , and -PRON- ask , " -PRON- ,   fitcher 's bird , where be -PRON- come from ? " 
 " i be come from fitcher 's house . " 
 " what be -PRON- young bride do there ? " 
 " -PRON- have sweep the house from bottom to top , and now -PRON- be look out of   the attic window . " 
 finally -PRON- bridegroom meet -PRON- . -PRON- be slowly walk back home , and , like   the other , -PRON- ask , " -PRON- , fitcher 's bird , where be -PRON- come from ? " 
 " i be come from fitcher 's house . " 
 " what be -PRON- young bride do there ? " 
 " -PRON- have sweep the house from bottom to top , and now -PRON- be look out of   the attic window . " 
 the bridegroom look up . see the decorate skull , -PRON- think -PRON- be   -PRON- bride , and -PRON- wave a friendly greeting to -PRON- . 
 after -PRON- and all -PRON- guest have go into the house , the bride 's brother   and relative arrive . -PRON- have be send to rescue -PRON- . after close up   all the door of the house so that no one could escape , -PRON- set -PRON- afire ,   and the sorcerer , together with -PRON- gang , all burn to death . 

 the juniper tree 

 long ago , at least two thousand year , there be a rich man who have a beautiful and pious wife , and -PRON- love each other dearly . however , -PRON- have no child , though -PRON- wish very much to have some , and the woman pray for -PRON- day and night , but -PRON- do not get any , and -PRON- do not get any . 
 in front of -PRON- house there be a courtyard where there stand a juniper tree . one day in winter the woman be stand beneath -PRON- , peel -PRON- an apple , and while -PRON- be thus peel the apple , -PRON- cut -PRON- finger , and the blood fall into the snow . 
 " oh , " say the woman . -PRON- sigh heavily , look at the blood before -PRON- , and be most unhappy . " if only i have a child as red as blood and as white as snow . " and as -PRON- say that , -PRON- become quite contented , and feel sure that -PRON- be go to happen . 
 then -PRON- go into the house , and a month go by , and the snow be go . and two month , and everything be green . and three month , and all the flower come out of the earth . and four month , and all the tree in the wood grow thick , and the green branch be all entwine in one another , and the bird sang until the wood resound and the blossom fall from the tree . then the fifth month pass , and -PRON- stand beneath the juniper tree , which smell so sweet that -PRON- heart jump for joy , and -PRON- fall on -PRON- knee and be beside -PRON- . and when the sixth month be over , the fruit be thick and large , and then -PRON- be quite still . and after the seventh month -PRON- pick the juniper berry and eat -PRON- greedily . then -PRON- grow sick and sorrowful . then the eighth month pass , and -PRON- call -PRON- husband to -PRON- , and cry , and say , " if i die , then bury -PRON- beneath the juniper tree . " then -PRON- be quite comforted and happy until the next month be over , and then -PRON- have a child as white as snow and as red as blood , and when -PRON- see -PRON- , -PRON- be so happy that -PRON- die . 
 -PRON- husband bury -PRON- beneath the juniper tree , and -PRON- begin to cry bitterly . after some time -PRON- be more at ease , and although -PRON- still cry , -PRON- could bear -PRON- . and some time later -PRON- take another wife . 
 -PRON- have a daughter by the second wife , but the first wife 's child be a little son , and -PRON- be as red as blood and as white as snow . when the woman look at -PRON- daughter , -PRON- love -PRON- very much , but then -PRON- look at the little boy , and -PRON- pierce -PRON- heart , for -PRON- think that -PRON- would always stand in -PRON- way , and -PRON- be always think how -PRON- could get the entire inheritance for -PRON- daughter . and the evil one fill -PRON- mind with this until -PRON- grow very angry with the little boy , and -PRON- push -PRON- from one corner to the other and slap -PRON- here and cuffed -PRON- there , until the poor child be always afraid , for when -PRON- come home from school there be nowhere -PRON- could find any peace . 
 one day the woman have go upstairs to -PRON- room , when -PRON- little daughter come up too , and say , " mother , give -PRON- an apple . " 
 " yes , -PRON- child , " say the woman , and give -PRON- a beautiful apple out of the chest . the chest have a large heavy lid with a large sharp iron lock . 
 " mother , " say the little daughter , " be brother not to have one too ? " 
 this make the woman angry , but -PRON- say , " yes , when -PRON- come home from school . " 
 when from the window -PRON- see -PRON- come , -PRON- be as though the evil one come over -PRON- , and -PRON- grab the apple and take -PRON- away from -PRON- daughter , say , " -PRON- shall not have one before -PRON- brother . " 
 -PRON- throw the apple into the chest , and shut -PRON- . then the little boy come in the door , and the evil one make -PRON- say to -PRON- kindly , " -PRON- son , do -PRON- want an apple ? " and -PRON- look at -PRON- fiercely . 
 " mother , " say the little boy , " how angry -PRON- look . yes , give -PRON- an apple . " 
 then -PRON- seem to -PRON- as if -PRON- have to persuade -PRON- . " come with -PRON- , " -PRON- say , open the lid of the chest . " take out an apple for -PRON- . " and while the little boy be lean over , the evil one prompt -PRON- , and crash ! -PRON- slam down the lid , and -PRON- head fly off , fall among the red apple . 
 then fear overcome -PRON- , and -PRON- think , " maybe i can get out of this . " so -PRON- go upstairs to -PRON- room to -PRON- chest of drawer , and take a white scarf out of the top drawer , and set the head on the neck again , tie the scarf around -PRON- so that nothing could be see . then -PRON- set -PRON- on a chair in front of the door and put the apple in -PRON- hand . 
 after this marlene come into the kitchen to -PRON- mother , who be stand by the fire with a pot of hot water before -PRON- which -PRON- be stir around and around . 
 " mother , " say marlene , " brother be sit at the door , and -PRON- look totally white and have an apple in -PRON- hand . i ask -PRON- to give -PRON- the apple , but -PRON- do not answer -PRON- , and i be very frightened . " 
 " go back to -PRON- , " say -PRON- mother , " and if -PRON- will not answer -PRON- , then box -PRON- ear . " 
 so marlene go to -PRON- and say , " brother , give -PRON- the apple . " but -PRON- be silent , so -PRON- give -PRON- one on the ear , and -PRON- head fall off . marlene be terrify , and begin cry and scream , and run to -PRON- mother , and say , " oh , mother , i have knock -PRON- brother 's head off , " and -PRON- cry and cry and could not be comfort . 
 " marlene , " say the mother , " what have -PRON- do ? be quiet and do not let anyone know about -PRON- . -PRON- can not be help now . -PRON- will cook -PRON- into stew . " 
 then the mother take the little boy and chop -PRON- in piece , put -PRON- into the pot , and cook -PRON- into stew . but marlene stand by cry and cry , and all -PRON- tear fall into the pot , and -PRON- do not need any salt . 
 then the father come home , and sit down at the table and say , " where be -PRON- son ? " and the mother serve up a large , large dish of stew , and marlene cry and could not stop . 
 then the father say again , " where be -PRON- son ? " 
 " oh , " say the mother , " -PRON- have go across the country to -PRON- mother 's great uncle . -PRON- will stay there awhile . " 
 " what be -PRON- do there ? -PRON- do not even say good - bye to -PRON- . " 
 " oh , -PRON- want to go , and ask -PRON- if -PRON- could stay six week . -PRON- will be well take care of there . " 
 " oh , " say the man , " i be unhappy . -PRON- be not right . -PRON- should have say good - bye to -PRON- . " with that -PRON- begin to eat , say , " marlene , why be -PRON- cry ? -PRON- brother will certainly come back . " 
 then -PRON- say , " wife , this food be delicious . give -PRON- some more . " and the more -PRON- eat the more -PRON- want , and -PRON- say , " give -PRON- some more . -PRON- two shall have none of -PRON- . -PRON- seem to -PRON- as if -PRON- be all mine . " and -PRON- eat and eat , throw all the bone under the table , until -PRON- have finish -PRON- all . 
 marlene go to -PRON- chest of drawer , take -PRON- good silk scarf from the bottom drawer , and gather all the bone from beneath the table and tie -PRON- up in -PRON- silk scarf , then carry -PRON- outside the door , cry tear of blood . 
 -PRON- lay -PRON- down beneath the juniper tree on the green grass , and after -PRON- have put -PRON- there , -PRON- suddenly feel good and do not cry anymore . 
 then the juniper tree begin to move . the branch move apart , then move together again , just as if someone be rejoice and clap -PRON- hand . at the same time a mist seem to rise from the tree , and in the center of this mist -PRON- burn like a fire , and a beautiful bird fly out of the fire singing magnificently , and -PRON- fly high into the air , and when -PRON- be go , the juniper tree be just as -PRON- have be before , and the cloth with the bone be no longer there . marlene , however , be as happy and contented as if -PRON- brother be still alive . and -PRON- go merrily into the house , sit down at the table , and eat . 
 then the bird fly away and light on a goldsmith 's house , and begin to sing : 
 the goldsmith be sit in -PRON- workshop make a golden chain , when -PRON- hear the bird sit on -PRON- roof and singing . the song seem very beautiful to -PRON- . -PRON- stand up , but as -PRON- cross the threshold -PRON- lose one of -PRON- slippers . however , -PRON- go right up the middle of the street with only one slipper and one sock on . -PRON- have -PRON- leather apron on , and in one hand -PRON- have a golden chain and in the other -PRON- tong . the sun be shin brightly on the street . 
 -PRON- walk onward , then stand still and say to the bird , " bird , " -PRON- say , " how beautifully -PRON- can sing . sing that piece again for -PRON- . " 
 " no , " say the bird , " i do not sing twice for nothing . give -PRON- the golden chain , and then i will sing -PRON- again for -PRON- . " 
 the goldsmith say , " here be the golden chain for -PRON- . now sing that song again for -PRON- . " then the bird come and take the golden chain in -PRON- right claw , and go and sit in front of the goldsmith , and sing : 
 then the bird fly away to a shoemaker , and light on -PRON- roof and sing : 
 hear this , the shoemaker run out of door in -PRON- shirtsleeve , and look up at -PRON- roof , and have to hold -PRON- hand in front of -PRON- eye to keep the sun from blind -PRON- . " bird , " say -PRON- , " how beautifully -PRON- can sing . " 
 then -PRON- call in at -PRON- door , " wife , come outside . there be a bird here . look at this bird . -PRON- certainly can sing . " then -PRON- call -PRON- daughter and -PRON- child , and the journeyman , and the apprentice , and the maid , and -PRON- all come out into the street and look at the bird and see how beautiful -PRON- be , and what fine red and green feather -PRON- have , and how -PRON- neck be like pure gold , and how -PRON- eye shine like star in -PRON- head . 
 " bird , " say the shoemaker , " now sing that song again for -PRON- . " 
 " no , " say the bird , " i do not sing twice for nothing . -PRON- must give -PRON- something . " 
 " wife , " say the man , " go into the shop . there be a pair of red shoe on the top shelf . bring -PRON- down . " then the wife go and bring the shoe . 
 " there , bird , " say the man , " now sing that piece again for -PRON- . " then the bird come and take the shoe in -PRON- left claw , and fly back to the roof , and sing : 
 when -PRON- have finish -PRON- song -PRON- fly away . in -PRON- right claw -PRON- have the chain and in -PRON- left one the shoe . -PRON- fly far away to a mill , and the mill go clickety - clack , clickety - clack , clickety - clack . in the mill sit twenty miller 's apprentice cut a stone , and chisel chip - chop , chip - chop , chip - chop . and the mill go clickety - clack , clickety - clack , clickety - clack . 
 then the bird go and sit on a linden tree which stand in front of the mill , and sing : 
 then one of -PRON- stop work . 
 then two more stop work and listen , 
 then four more stop , 
 now only eight only be chisel , 
 now only five , 
 now only one , 
 then the last one stop also , and hear the last word . " bird , " say -PRON- , " how beautifully -PRON- s . let -PRON- hear that too . sing -PRON- once more for -PRON- . " 
 " no , " say the bird , " i do not sing twice for nothing . give -PRON- the millstone , and then i will sing -PRON- again . " 
 " yes , " -PRON- say , " if -PRON- belong only to -PRON- , -PRON- should have -PRON- . " 
 " yes , " say the other , " if -PRON- sing again -PRON- can have -PRON- . " 
 then the bird come down , and the twenty miller take a beam and lift the stone up . yo - heave - ho ! yo - heave - ho ! yo - heave - ho ! 
 the bird stick -PRON- neck through the hole and put the stone on as if -PRON- be a collar , then fly to the tree again , and sing : 
 when -PRON- be finish sing , -PRON- spread -PRON- wing , and in -PRON- right claw -PRON- have the chain , and in -PRON- left one the shoe , and around -PRON- neck the millstone . -PRON- fly far away to -PRON- father 's house . 
 in the room the father , the mother , and marlene be sit at the table . 
 the father say , " i feel so contented . i be so happy . " 
 " not i , " say the mother , " i feel uneasy , just as if a bad storm be come . " 
 but marlene just sit and cry and cry . 
 then the bird fly up , and as -PRON- seat -PRON- on the roof , the father say , " oh , i feel so truly happy , and the sun be shin so beautifully outside . i feel as if i be about to see some old acquaintance again . " 
 " not i , " say the woman , " i be so afraid that -PRON- tooth be chatter , and i feel like i have fire in -PRON- vein . " and -PRON- tear open -PRON- bodice even more . marlene sit in a corner cry . -PRON- hold a handkerchief before -PRON- eye and cry until -PRON- be wet clear through . 
 then the bird seat -PRON- on the juniper tree , and sing : 
 the mother stop -PRON- ear and shut -PRON- eye , not want to see or hear , but there be a roar in -PRON- ear like the fierce storm , and -PRON- eye burn and flash like lightning . 
 " oh , mother , " say the man , " that be a beautiful bird . -PRON- be sing so splendidly , and the sun be shin so warmly , and -PRON- smell like pure cinnamon . " 
 then marlene lay -PRON- head on -PRON- knee and cry and cry , but the man say , " i be go out . i must see the bird up close . " 
 " oh , do not go , " say the woman , " i feel as if the whole house be shake and on fire . " 
 but the man go out and look at the bird . 
 with this the bird drop the golden chain , and -PRON- fall right around the man 's neck , so exactly around -PRON- that -PRON- fit beautifully . then the man go in and say , " just look what a beautiful bird that be , and what a beautiful golden chain -PRON- have give -PRON- , and how nice -PRON- look . " 
 but the woman be terrify . -PRON- fall down on the floor in the room , and -PRON- cap fall off -PRON- head . then the bird sing once more : 
 " i wish i be a thousand fathom beneath the earth , so i would not have to hear that ! " 
 then the woman fall down as if -PRON- be dead . 
 " oh , " say marlene , " i too will go out and see if the bird will give -PRON- something . " then -PRON- go out . 
 -PRON- throw the shoe down to -PRON- . 
 then -PRON- be contented and happy . -PRON- put on the new red shoe and dance and leap into the house . " oh , " -PRON- say , " i be so sad when i go out and now i be so contented . that be a splendid bird , -PRON- have give -PRON- a pair of red shoe . " 
 " no , " say the woman , jump to -PRON- foot and with -PRON- hair stand up like flame of fire , " i feel as if the world be come to an end . i too , will go out and see if -PRON- make -PRON- feel good . " 
 and as -PRON- go out the door , crash ! the bird throw the millstone on -PRON- head , and -PRON- crush -PRON- to death . 
 the father and marlene hear -PRON- and go out . smoke , flame , and fire be rise from the place , and when that be over , the little brother be stand there , and -PRON- take -PRON- father and marlene by the hand , and all three be very happy , and -PRON- go into the house , sit down at the table , and eat . 

 old sultan 

 -PRON- wife , who feel pity for the faithful animal , answer , " -PRON- have serve -PRON- so long , and be so faithful , that -PRON- may well give -PRON- -PRON- keep . " 
 " what ? " say the man . " -PRON- be not very bright .   -PRON- do not have a tooth leave in -PRON- mouth , and no thief be afraid of -PRON- . -PRON- can go now .   if -PRON- have serve -PRON- , -PRON- have eat well for -PRON- . " 
 the poor dog , who be lie stretch out in the sun not far off , hear everything , and be sorry that tomorrow be to be -PRON- last day .   -PRON- have a good friend , the wolf , and -PRON- creep out in the evening into the forest to -PRON- , and complain of the fate that await -PRON- . 
 " listen , kinsman , " say the wolf , " be of good cheer . i will help -PRON- out of -PRON- trouble .   i have think of something .   tomorrow , early in the morning , -PRON- master be go with -PRON- wife to make hay , and -PRON- will take -PRON- little child with -PRON- , for no one will be leave behind in the house . while -PRON- be at work -PRON- lie the child behind the hedge in the shade . -PRON- lie down there too , just as if -PRON- want to guard -PRON- .   then i will come out of the wood , and carry off the child .   -PRON- must run swiftly after -PRON- , as if -PRON- would take -PRON- away from -PRON- .   i will let -PRON- fall , and -PRON- will take -PRON- back to -PRON- parent , who will think that -PRON- have rescue -PRON- , and will be far too grateful to do -PRON- any harm . on the contrary , -PRON- will be treat royally , and -PRON- will never let -PRON- want for anything again . " 
 this idea please the dog , and -PRON- be carry out just as plan .   the father scream when -PRON- see the wolf run across the field with -PRON- child , but when old sultan bring -PRON- back , -PRON- be full of joy , and stroke -PRON- and say , " not a hair of -PRON- shall be hurt . -PRON- shall eat free bread as long as -PRON- live . " 
 and to -PRON- wife -PRON- say , " go home at once and make old sultan some bread soup that -PRON- will not have to bite . and bring the pillow from -PRON- bed .   i will give -PRON- to -PRON- to lie on .   from then on old sultan be as well off as -PRON- could possibly wish . 
 soon afterwards the wolf visit -PRON- , and be pleased that everything have succeed so well .   " but , kinsman , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- will just close one eye if , when i have a chance , i carry off one of -PRON- master 's fat sheep . " 
 " do n't count on that , " answer the dog .   " i will remain true to -PRON- master . i can not agree to that . " 
 the wolf think that this be not speak in earnest , and -PRON- creep up in the night to take away the sheep . but the farmer , to whom the faithful sultan have tell the wolf 's plan , be wait for -PRON- and comb -PRON- hair cruelly with a flail . the wolf have to flee , but -PRON- cry out to the dog , " just wait , -PRON- scoundrel . -PRON- will regret this . " 
 the next morning the wolf send the boar to challenge the dog to come out into the forest and settle the affair . old sultan could find no one to be -PRON- second but a cat with only three leg , and as -PRON- go out together the poor cat limp along , stretch -PRON- tail upward with pain . 
 the wolf and -PRON- friend be already at the appoint place , but when -PRON- see -PRON- enemy come , -PRON- think that -PRON- be bring a saber with -PRON- , for -PRON- mistake the cat 's outstretched tail for one .   and when the poor animal hop on three leg , -PRON- think that each time -PRON- be pick up a stone to throw at -PRON- .   then -PRON- take fright . the wild boar creep into the underbrush and the wolf jump up a tree . 
 as the dog and the cat approach , -PRON- wonder why no one be to be see .   the wild boar , however , have not be able to hide -PRON- completely in the leaf . -PRON- ear be still stick out .   while the cat be look cautiously about , the boar wiggle -PRON- ear , and the cat , who think -PRON- be a mouse , jump on -PRON- and bite down hard .   the boar jump up scream loudly , " the guilty one be up in the tree . " 
 the dog and cat look up and see the wolf , who be ashamed for have show such fear , and who then make peace with the dog . 


 the six swan 

 " oh , yes , -PRON- majesty , " -PRON- answer , " i can indeed . however , there be   one condition , and if -PRON- do not fulfill -PRON- , -PRON- will never get out of   these wood , and will die here of hunger . " 
 " what sort of condition be -PRON- ? " ask the king . 
 " i have a daughter , " say the old woman , " who be as beautiful as anyone   -PRON- could find in all the world , and who well deserve to become -PRON-   wife . if -PRON- will make -PRON- -PRON- queen , i will show -PRON- the way out of the   wood . " 
 the king be so frightened that -PRON- consent , and the old woman lead -PRON- to   -PRON- cottage , where -PRON- daughter be sit by the fire . -PRON- receive the   king as if -PRON- have be expect -PRON- . -PRON- see that -PRON- be very beautiful ,   but in spite of this -PRON- do not like -PRON- , and -PRON- could not look at -PRON-   without secretly shudder . 
 after -PRON- have lift the girl onto -PRON- horse , the old woman show -PRON- the   way , and the king arrive again at -PRON- royal castle , where the wedding be   celebrate . 
 the king have be marry before , and by -PRON- first wife -PRON- have seven   child , six boy and one girl . -PRON- love -PRON- more than anything else in   the world . 
 fear that the stepmother may not treat -PRON- well , even do -PRON- harm ,   -PRON- take -PRON- to a secluded castle which stand in the middle of a forest .   -PRON- be so well hide , and the way be so difficult to find , that -PRON-   -PRON- would not have find -PRON- , if a wise woman have not give -PRON- a ball   of magic yarn . whenever -PRON- throw -PRON- down in front of -PRON- , -PRON- would unwind   -PRON- and show -PRON- the way . 
 however , the king go out to -PRON- dear child so often that the queen   take notice of -PRON- absence . -PRON- be curious and want to know what -PRON- be   do out there all alone in the wood . -PRON- give a large sum of money to   -PRON- servant , and -PRON- reveal the secret to -PRON- . -PRON- also tell -PRON-   about the ball of yarn which could point out the way all by -PRON- . 
 -PRON- do not rest until -PRON- discover where the king keep the ball of   yarn . then -PRON- make some little shirt of white silk . have learn the   art of witchcraft from -PRON- mother , -PRON- sew a magic charm into each one   of -PRON- . then one day when the king have ride out hunting , -PRON- take the   little shirt and go into the wood . the ball of yarn show -PRON- the   way . 
 the child , see that someone be approach from afar , think that   -PRON- dear father be come to -PRON- . full of joy , -PRON- run to meet -PRON- .   then -PRON- throw one of the shirt over each of -PRON- , and when the shirt   touch -PRON- body -PRON- be transform into swan , and -PRON- fly away   over the wood . 
 the queen go home very pleased , believe that -PRON- have get rid of -PRON-   stepchildren . however , the girl have not run out with -PRON- brother , and the   queen know nothing about -PRON- . 
 the next day the king go to visit -PRON- child , but -PRON- find no one   there but the girl . 
 " where be -PRON- brother ? " ask the king . 
 " oh , dear father , " -PRON- answer , " -PRON- have go away and leave -PRON- alone . " 
 then -PRON- tell -PRON- that from -PRON- window -PRON- have see how -PRON- brother have   fly away over the wood as swan . -PRON- show -PRON- the feather that -PRON-   have drop into the courtyard , and which -PRON- have gather up . 
 the king mourn , but -PRON- do not think that the queen have do this wicked   deed . fear that the girl would be steal away from -PRON- as well , -PRON-   want to take -PRON- away with -PRON- , but -PRON- be afraid of -PRON- stepmother and   beg the king to let -PRON- stay just this one more night in the castle in   the wood . 
 the poor girl think , " i can no longer stay here . i will go and look for   -PRON- brother . " 
 and when night come -PRON- run away and go straight into the wood . -PRON-   walk the whole night long without stop , and the next day as well ,   until -PRON- be too tired to walk any further . 
 then -PRON- see a hunter 's hut and go inside . -PRON- find a room with six   little bed , but -PRON- do not dare to get into one of -PRON- . instead -PRON-   crawl under one of -PRON- and lie down on the hard ground where -PRON-   intend to spend the night . 
 the sun be about to go down when -PRON- hear a rush sound and see six   swan fly in through the window . land on the floor , -PRON-   blow on one   another , and blow all -PRON- feather off . then -PRON- swan - skin come off   just like shirt . the girl look at -PRON- and recognize -PRON- brother . -PRON-   be happy and crawl out from beneath the bed . the brother be no less   happy to see -PRON- little sister , but -PRON- happiness do not last long . 
 " -PRON- can not stay here , " -PRON- say to -PRON- . " this be a robber ' den . if -PRON-   come home and find -PRON- , -PRON- will murder -PRON- . " 
 " can not -PRON- protect -PRON- ? " ask the little sister . 
 " no , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- can take off -PRON- swan - skin for only a quarter   hour each evening . only during that time do -PRON- have -PRON- human form . after   that -PRON- be again transform into swan . " 
 cry , the little sister say , " can -PRON- not be redeem ? " 
 " alas , no , " -PRON- answer . " the condition be too difficult . -PRON- would   not be allow to speak or to laugh for six year , and in that time -PRON-   would have to sew together six little shirt from aster for -PRON- . and if a   single word be to come from -PRON- mouth , all -PRON- work would be lose . " 
 after the brother have say this , the quarter hour be over , and -PRON- fly   out the window again as swan . 
 nevertheless , the girl firmly resolve to redeem -PRON- brother , even if -PRON-   should cost -PRON- -PRON- life . -PRON- leave the hunter 's hut , go to the middle of   the wood , seat -PRON- in a tree , and there spend the night . the next   morning -PRON- go out and gather aster and begin to sew . -PRON- could not   speak with anyone , and -PRON- have no desire to laugh . -PRON- sit there , look   only at -PRON- work . 
 after -PRON- have already spend a long time there -PRON- happen that the king of   the land be hunt in these wood . -PRON- huntsman come to the tree where   the girl be sit . 
 -PRON- call to -PRON- , say , " who be -PRON- ? " but -PRON- do not answer . 
 " come down to -PRON- , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- will not harm -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- only shake -PRON- head . when -PRON- press -PRON- further with question , -PRON-   throw -PRON- golden necklace down to -PRON- , think that this would satisfy   -PRON- . but -PRON- do not stop , so -PRON- then throw -PRON- belt down to -PRON- , and   when this do not help , -PRON- garter , and then -- one thing at a time --   everything that -PRON- have on   and could do without , until finally -PRON- have   nothing leave but -PRON- shift . 
 the huntsmen , however , not let -PRON- be dissuade , climb the   tree , lift the girl down , and take -PRON- to the king . 
 the king ask , " who be -PRON- ? what be -PRON- do in that tree ? " 
 but -PRON- do not answer . -PRON- ask -PRON- in every language that -PRON- know , but   -PRON- remain as speechless as a fish . because -PRON- be so beautiful , the   king 's heart be touch , and -PRON- fall deeply in love with -PRON- . -PRON- put -PRON-   cloak around -PRON- , lift -PRON- onto -PRON- horse in front of -PRON- , and take   -PRON- to -PRON- castle . there -PRON- have -PRON- dressed in rich garment , and -PRON-   glisten in -PRON- beauty like bright daylight , but no one could get a word   from -PRON- . 
 at the table -PRON- seat -PRON- by -PRON- side , and -PRON- modest manner and   courtesy please -PRON- so much that -PRON- say , " -PRON- desire be to marry -PRON- , and   no one else in the world . " 
 a few day later -PRON- be marry . 
 now the king have a wicked mother who be dissatisfy with this marriage   and speak ill of the young queen . " who know , " -PRON- say , " where the girl   who can not speak come from ? -PRON- be not worthy of a king . " 
 a year later , after the queen have bring -PRON- first child into the world ,   the old woman take -PRON- away from -PRON- while -PRON- be asleep , and smear -PRON-   mouth with blood . then -PRON- go to the king and accuse -PRON- of be a   cannibal . the king could not believe this , and would not allow anyone to   harm -PRON- . -PRON- , however , sit the whole time sewing on the shirt , and   care for nothing else . 
 the next time , when -PRON- again give birth to a beautiful boy , the deceitful   mother - in - law do the same thing again , but the king could not bring   -PRON- to believe -PRON- accusation . 
 -PRON- say , " -PRON- be too pious and good to do anything like that . if -PRON- be   not speechless , and if -PRON- could defend -PRON- , -PRON- innocence would come   to light . " 
 but when the old woman steal away a newly bear child for the third time ,   and accuse the queen , who do not defend -PRON- with a single word , the   king have no choice but to bring -PRON- to justice , and -PRON- be sentence to   die by fire . 
 when the day come for the sentence to be carry out , -PRON- be also the last   day of the six year during which -PRON- have not be permit to speak or   to laugh , and -PRON- have thus deliver -PRON- dear brother from the magic   curse . the six shirt be finish . only the left sleeve of the last one   be missing . when -PRON- be lead to the stake , -PRON- lay the shirt on -PRON-   arm . stand there , as the fire be about to be light , -PRON- look   around , and six swan come fly through the air . see that -PRON-   redemption be near , -PRON- heart leap with joy . 
 the swan rush towards -PRON- , swoop down so that -PRON- could throw the   shirt over -PRON- . as soon as the shirt touch -PRON- -PRON- swan - skin fall   off , and -PRON- brother stand before -PRON- in -PRON- own body , vigorous and   handsome . however , the young be miss -PRON- left arm . in -PRON- place -PRON-   have a swan 's wing . 
 -PRON- embrace and kiss one another . then the queen go to the king , who   be greatly move , and -PRON- begin to speak , say , " dear husband , now i   may speak and reveal to -PRON- that i be innocent , and falsely accuse . " 
 then -PRON- tell -PRON- of the treachery of the old woman who have take away   -PRON- three child and hide -PRON- . 
 then to the king 's great joy -PRON- be bring forth . as a punishment , the   wicked mother - in - law be tie to the stake and burn to ash . but the   king and the queen with -PRON- six brother live many long year in   happiness and peace . 


 little brier - rise 

 then -PRON- happen one day while the queen be sit in -PRON- bath , that   a frog creep out of the water onto   the ground and say to -PRON- , " -PRON- wish shall be fulfil , and before a year pass -PRON- will bring a daughter into the world . " 
 what the frog say do happen , and the queen give birth to a girl who   be so beautiful that the king   could not contain -PRON- for joy , and -PRON- order a great celebration . -PRON- invite not only -PRON- relative , friend , and acquaintance , but also   the wise woman so that -PRON- would be kindly disposed toward the child . there   be thirteen of -PRON- in -PRON- kingdom , but because -PRON- have only twelve golden   plate from which -PRON- be to eat , one of -PRON- have to remain at home . 
 the feast be celebrate with great splendor , and at -PRON- conclusion the   wise woman present the child with -PRON- magic gift . the one give -PRON- virtue ,   the second one beauty , the third one wealth , and so on with everything that   one could wish for on earth . 
 the eleventh one have just pronounce -PRON- blessing when the thirteenth   one suddenly walk in . -PRON-   want to avenge -PRON- for not have be invite , and without greet   anyone or even look at -PRON-   -PRON- cry out with a loud voice , " in the princess 's fifteenth year -PRON-   shall prick -PRON- with a spindle and fall   over dead . " and without say another word -PRON- turn around and leave the   hall . 
 everyone be horrified , and the twelfth wise woman , who have not yet   offer -PRON- wish , step foreward . because -PRON- be unable to undo the wicked   wish , but only to soften -PRON- , -PRON-   say , " -PRON- shall not be -PRON- death . the princess will only fall into a hundred - year deep sleep . " 
 the king , want to rescue -PRON- dear child , issue an order that all spindle in the entire kingdom should be burn . the wise woman 's gift   be all fulfil on the girl , for -PRON-   be so beautiful , well behave , friendly , and intelligent that everyone   who see -PRON- have to love -PRON- . 
 now -PRON- happen that on the day when -PRON- turn fifteen year of age   the king and the queen be not at home , and the girl be all alone in the   castle . -PRON- walk around from one place to the next , look into room and   chamber as -PRON- heart desire . finally -PRON- come to an old tower . -PRON- climb up the   narrow , wind stair   and arrive at a small door . in the lock there be a rusty key , and when   -PRON- turn -PRON- the door spring open . there in a small room sit an old woman   with a spindle busily spin -PRON- flax . 
 " good day , old woman , " say the princess . " what be -PRON- do there ? " 
 " i be spin , " say the old woman , nod -PRON- head . 
 " what be that thing that be so merrily bounce about ? " ask the girl , take hold of the spindle , for -PRON- too want to spin . 
 -PRON- have no sooner touch the spindle when the magic curse be   fulfil , and -PRON- prick -PRON- in the   finger . the instant that -PRON- feel the prick -PRON- fall onto a bed that be stand there , and -PRON- lie there in a deep sleep . and this sleep spread   throughout the entire castle . the king and queen , who have just return home , walk   into the hall and begin fall asleep , and all of -PRON- attendant as well .   the horse fall asleep in -PRON- stall , the dog in the courtyard , the pigeon   on the roof , the fly on the wall , and even the fire on the hearth   flicker , stop move , and fall asleep . the roast stop sizzle . the cook , who   be about to pull kitchen boy 's hair for have do something wrong , let -PRON-   loose and fall asleep . the wind stop blow , and outside the castle not a leaf   be stir in the tree . 
 round about the castle a thorn hedge begin to grow , and every year -PRON-   become higher , until -PRON- finally surround and cover the entire castle . finally nothing at all could be see of -PRON- , not even the flag on the roof . 
 a legend circulate throughout the land about the beautiful sleep   little brier - rose , for so the princess be call . legend also tell that from time to time prince come , want to force -PRON- way through the hedge into the   castle . however , -PRON- do not succeed , for the thorn hold firmly together , as   though -PRON- have hand , and the young man become stuck in -PRON- , could not free -PRON- , and die miserably . 
 many long , long year later , once again a prince come to the country .   -PRON- hear an old man tell about the thorn hedge . -PRON- be say that there be   a castle behind -PRON- ,   in which a beautiful princess name little brier - rise have be asleep for a hundred year , and with -PRON- the king and the queen   and all the royal attendant be sleep . -PRON- also know from -PRON-   grandfather that many prince have come and try to penetrate the thorn hedge , but -PRON- have   become stuck in -PRON- and die a sorrowful death . 
 then the young man say , " i be not afraid . i will go there and see the beautiful little brier - rose . " 
 however much the good old man try to dissuade -PRON- , the prince would   not listen to -PRON- word . 
 the hundred year have just pass , and the day have come when little   bri - rose be to awaken . when the prince approach the thorn hedge , -PRON- be nothing   but large , beautiful flower that separate by -PRON- , allow -PRON- to   pass through without harm , but then behind -PRON- close back into a hedge . 
 in the courtyard -PRON- see the horse and spot hunt dog lie there asleep , and on the roof the pigeon , perch with -PRON- little head   tuck under -PRON- wing . when -PRON- walk inside the fly be asleep on the wall ,   the cook in the kitchen be still hold up -PRON- hand as if -PRON- want to grab   the boy , and the maid be sit in front of the black chicken that be   suppose to be pluck . -PRON- walk further and see all the attendant lie asleep   in the hall , and above -PRON- near the throne the king and the queen be lie . -PRON- walk on still further , and -PRON- be so quiet that -PRON- could hear -PRON- own   breath . finally -PRON- come to the tower and open the door to the little room where   little brier - rose be sleep . 
 there -PRON- lie and be so beautiful that -PRON- could not take -PRON- eye off -PRON- . -PRON- bend over and give -PRON- a kiss . when -PRON- touch   -PRON- with the kiss little brier - rose open -PRON- eye , awake , and look at -PRON- kindly . 
 -PRON- go downstairs together , and the king awake , and the queen , and   all the royal attendant , and -PRON- look at one another in amazement . the horse   in the courtyard stand up and shake -PRON- . the hunt dog jump and   wag -PRON- tail . the pigeon on the roof pull -PRON- little head out from   beneath -PRON- wing , look around , and fly into the field . the fly on the   wall creep about again . the fire in the kitchen rise up , break into flame , and cook the food . the roast begin to sizzle once again . the cook box the   boy 's ear , cause -PRON- to cry , and the maid finish pluck the chicken . 

 foundl - bird 

 the forester climb the tree , bring the child down , and think , " i   will take the child home with -PRON- ,    and bring -PRON- up with -PRON- lenchen . " 
 so -PRON- take -PRON- home , and the two child grow up together . the child   whom -PRON- have find on the tree    be call foundl - bird , because a bird have carry -PRON- away .   foundl - bird and lenchen love each    other so much , ever so much , that whenever -PRON- do not see one another   -PRON- be sad . 
 now the forester have an old cook . one evening -PRON- take two bucket and   begin to fetch water . -PRON- do    not go out to the well just once , but many time . 
 lenchen see this and say , " listen , old sanna , why be -PRON- fetch so   much water ? " 
 " if -PRON- will not tell anyone , i will tell -PRON- . " 
 so lenchen say that -PRON- would not tell anyone , and then the cook say ,   " early tomorrow morning when    the forester be out hunt i will heat the water , and when -PRON- be boil   in the kettle i will throw foundling - bird    into -PRON- and cook -PRON- . 
 the forester get up very early the next morning and go out hunting .   when -PRON- leave , the child be still    in bed . 
 then lenchen say to foundl - bird , " if -PRON- will never leave -PRON- , i   will never leave -PRON- either . " 
 foundl - bird say , " never , ever . " 
 then lenchen say , " then i will tell -PRON- that last night old sanna   carry so many bucket of water into    the house that i ask -PRON- why -PRON- be do that . -PRON- say that if i   would not tell anyone -PRON- would tell -PRON- . i    say that i would be sure not to tell anyone , and -PRON- say that early   tomorrow morning when father be out    hunting , -PRON- would boil a kettle full of water , throw -PRON- into -PRON- , and   cook -PRON- . but let -PRON- hurry and get up , get    dress , and run away together . 
 so the two child get up , hurriedly get dress , and go away . 
 when the water in the kettle be boil , the cook go into the   bedroom to get foundling - bird and    throw -PRON- into -PRON- . but when -PRON- go to -PRON- room and to -PRON- bed , both   the child be go . 
 then -PRON- become terribly frightened and say to -PRON- , " what will i   say when the forester come home    and see that the child be go . i must hurry and follow -PRON- and get   -PRON- back again . " 
 then the cook send out three servant who be to run after the   child and bring -PRON- back . the    child be sit at the edge of the wood when -PRON- see the three   servant run toward -PRON- from    afar . 
 lenchen say to foundl - bird , " never leave -PRON- , and i will never leave   -PRON- . " 
 foundl - bird say , " never , ever . " 
 then lenchen say , " -PRON- , turn into a rosebush , and i to a rose on -PRON- . " 
 when the three servant reach the edge of the wood nothing be there   but a rosebush with one rise    on -PRON- , but the child be nowhere . " 
 then -PRON- say , " there be nothing to be do here , " and -PRON- go home   and tell the cook that -PRON- have    see nothing out there but a little rosebush with one rose on -PRON- . 
 then the old cook scold -PRON- , say , " -PRON- simpleton , -PRON- should   have cut the rosebush in two and    then break off the rose and bring -PRON- home with -PRON- . hurry up and do   -PRON- . " 
 so -PRON- have to go out and look for the second time . the child ,   however , see -PRON- come from afar . 
 lenchen say , " foundl - bird , never leave -PRON- , and i will never leave   -PRON- . " 
 foundl - bird say , " never , ever . " 
 lenchen say , " -PRON- , turn into a church , and i to the chandelier in -PRON- . " 
 when the three servant arrive , nothing be there but a church with a   chandelier in -PRON- . so -PRON- say to    one another , " what can -PRON- do here ? let -PRON- go home . " 
 when -PRON- reach home , the cook ask if -PRON- have find -PRON- , and -PRON-   say that -PRON- have find    nothing but a church with a chandelier in -PRON- . 
 the cook scold -PRON- , say , " -PRON- fool , why do not -PRON- break down   the church and bring the    chandelier home with -PRON- ? " 
 this time the old cook -PRON- get up and with the three servant go   out after the child . 
 the child , however , see from afar that the three servant be   come , with the cook totter after    -PRON- . 
 then lenchen say , " foundl - bird , never leave -PRON- , and i will never   leave -PRON- . " 
 foundl - bird say , " never , ever . " 
 lenchen say , " turn into a pond , and i to a duck upon -PRON- . " 
 the cook come up to -PRON- , and when -PRON- see the pond -PRON- lean out over   -PRON- and be about to drink -PRON-    up . but the duck quickly come swim toward -PRON- , take hold of -PRON- head   with -PRON- beak , and pull -PRON- into    the water , where the old witch drown . 
 then the child go home together , and be very happy , and if -PRON-   have not die , -PRON- be still alive . 

 king thrushbeard 

 once the king sponsor a great feast and invite from far and near all the man want to get marry . -PRON- be all place in a row accord to -PRON- rank and standing . first come the king , then the grand duke , then the prince , the earl , the baron , and the aristocracy . then the king 's daughter be lead through the rank , but -PRON- object to something about each one . one be too fat : " the wine barrel , " -PRON- say . another be too tall : " thin and tall , no good at all . " the third be too short : " short and thick be never quick . " the fourth be too pale : " as pale as death . " the fifth too red : " a prize rooster . " the sixth be not straight enough : " green wood , dry behind the stove . " 
 and thus -PRON- have some objection to each one , but -PRON- ridicule especially one good king who stand at the very top of the row , and whose chin have grow a little crooked . " look ! " -PRON- cry out , laugh , " -PRON- have a chin like a thrush 's beak . " and from that time -PRON- be call thrushbeard . 
 now the old king , see that -PRON- daughter do nothing but ridicule the people , make fun of all the suitor who be gather there , become very angry , and -PRON- swear that -PRON- should have for -PRON- husband the very first beggar to come to -PRON- door . 
 a few day later a minstrel come and sing beneath the window , try to earn a small handout . 
 when the king hear -PRON- -PRON- say , " let -PRON- come up . " 
 so the minstrel , in -PRON- dirty , ragged clothe , come in and sing before the king and -PRON- daughter , and when -PRON- be finish -PRON- ask for a small gift . 
 the king say , " i like -PRON- song so much that i will give -PRON- -PRON- daughter for a wife . " 
 the king 's daughter take fright , but the king say , " i have take an oath to give -PRON- to the very first beggar , and i will keep -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- protest do not help . the priest be call in , and -PRON- have to marry the minstrel at once . after that have happen the king say , " -PRON- be not proper for -PRON- , a beggar 's wife , to stay in -PRON- palace any longer . all -PRON- can do now be to go away with -PRON- husband . " 
 the beggar lead -PRON- out by the hand , and -PRON- have to leave with -PRON- , walk on foot . 
 -PRON- come to a large forest , and -PRON- ask , " who own this beautiful forest ? " 
 " -PRON- belong to king thrushbeard . if -PRON- have take -PRON- , -PRON- would be -PRON- . " 

 afterwards -PRON- cross a meadow , and -PRON- ask again , " who own this beautiful green meadow ? " 
 " -PRON- belong to king thrushbeard . if -PRON- have take -PRON- , -PRON- would be -PRON- . " 

 then -PRON- walk through a large town , and -PRON- ask again , " who own this beautiful large town ? " 
 " -PRON- belong to king thrushbeard . if -PRON- have take -PRON- , -PRON- would be -PRON- . " 

 " i do not like -PRON- to always be wish for another husband , " say the minstrel . " be i not good enough for -PRON- ? " 
 at last -PRON- come to a very little hut , and -PRON- say , " oh goodness . what a small house . who own this miserable tiny hut ? " 
 the minstrel answer , " this be -PRON- house and your , where -PRON- shall live together . " 
 -PRON- have to stoop in order to get in the low door . 
 " where be the servant ? " say the king 's daughter . 
 " what servant ? " answer the beggar . " -PRON- must do for -PRON- what -PRON- want to have do . now make a fire at once , put some water on to boil , so -PRON- can cook -PRON- something to eat . i be very tired . " 
 but the king 's daughter know nothing about light fire or cooking , and the beggar have to lend a hand -PRON- to get anything do at all . when -PRON- have finish -PRON- scanty meal -PRON- go to bed . but -PRON- make -PRON- get up very early the next morning in order to do the housework . 
 for a few day -PRON- live in this way , as well as -PRON- could , but -PRON- finally come to the end of -PRON- provision . 
 then the man say , " wife , -PRON- can not go on any longer eat and drink here and earn nothing . -PRON- must weave basket . " -PRON- go out , cut some willow , and bring -PRON- home . then -PRON- begin to weave basket , but the hard willow cut into -PRON- delicate hand . 
 " i see that this will not do , " say the man . " -PRON- have good spin . perhaps -PRON- can do that good . " -PRON- sit down and try to spin , but the hard thread soon cut into -PRON- soft finger until -PRON- bleed . 
 " see , " say the man . " -PRON- be not good for any sort of work . i make a bad bargain with -PRON- . now i will try to start a business with pot and earthenware . -PRON- must sit in the marketplace and sell -PRON- . " 
 " oh ! " -PRON- think . " if people from -PRON- father 's kingdom come to the market and see -PRON- sit there sell thing , how -PRON- will ridicule -PRON- ! " 
 but -PRON- protest do not help . -PRON- have to do what -PRON- husband demand , unless -PRON- want to die of hunger . 
 at first -PRON- go well . people buy   the woman 's ware because -PRON- be beautiful , and -PRON- pay -PRON- whatev -PRON- ask . many even give -PRON- the money and let -PRON- keep the pot . so -PRON- live on what -PRON- earn as long as -PRON- last . then the husband buy a lot of new pottery . -PRON- sit down with this at the corner of the marketplace and set -PRON- around -PRON- for sale . but suddenly there come a drunken hussar gallop along , and -PRON- ride right into the pot , break -PRON- into a thousand piece . -PRON- begin to cry , and be so afraid that -PRON- do not know what to do . 
 " oh ! what will happen to -PRON- ? " -PRON- cry . " what will -PRON- husband say about this ? " -PRON- run home and tell -PRON- of the misfortune . 
 " who would sit at the corner of the marketplace with earthenware ? " say the man . " now stop cry . i see very well that -PRON- be not fit for any ordinary work . now i be at -PRON- king 's palace and ask if -PRON- could not use a kitchen maid . -PRON- promise -PRON- to take -PRON- . in return -PRON- will get free food . " 
 the king 's daughter now become a kitchen maid , and have to be available to the cook , and to do the dirty work . in each of -PRON- pocket -PRON- fasten a little jar , in which -PRON- take home -PRON- share of the leftover . and this be what -PRON- live on . 
 -PRON- happen that the wedding of the king 's eld son be to be celebrate , so the poor woman go up and stand near the door of the hall to look on . when all the light be light , and people , each more beautiful than the other , enter , and all be full of pomp and splendor , -PRON- think about -PRON- plight with a sad heart , and curse the pride and haughtiness which have humble -PRON- and bring -PRON- to such great poverty . 
 the smell of the delicious dish which be be take in and out reach -PRON- , and now and then the servant throw -PRON- a few scrap , which -PRON- put in -PRON- jar to take home . 
 then suddenly the king 's son enter , clothe in velvet and silk , with gold chain around -PRON- neck . when -PRON- see the beautiful woman stand by the door -PRON- take -PRON- by the hand and want dance with -PRON- . but -PRON- refuse and take fright , for -PRON- see that -PRON- be king thrushbeard , the suitor whom -PRON- have reject with scorn . 
 -PRON- struggle do not help . -PRON- pull -PRON- into the hall . but the string that tie up -PRON- pocket break , and the pot fall to the floor . the soup run out , and the scrap fly everywhere . when the people see this , everyone laugh and ridicule -PRON- . -PRON- be so ashamed that -PRON- would rather have be a thousand fathom beneath the ground . -PRON- jump out the door and want to run away , but a man overtake -PRON- on the stair and bring -PRON- back . and when -PRON- look at -PRON- , -PRON- be king thrushbeard again . 
 -PRON- say to -PRON- kindly , " do n't be afraid . i and the minstrel who have be live with -PRON- in that miserable hut be one and the same . for the love of -PRON- i disguise -PRON- . and i be also the hussar who break -PRON- pottery to piece . all this be do to humble -PRON- proud spirit and to punish -PRON- for the arrogance with which -PRON- ridicule -PRON- . " 
 then -PRON- cry bitterly and say , " i be terribly wrong , and be not worthy to be -PRON- wife . " 
 but -PRON- say , " be comfort . the evil day be past . now -PRON- will celebrate -PRON- wedding . " 
 then the maid - in - waiting come and dress -PRON- in the most splendid clothing , and -PRON- father and -PRON- whole court come and wish -PRON- happiness in -PRON- marriage with king thrushbeard , and -PRON- true happiness begin only now . 
 i wish that -PRON- and i have be there as well . 

 little snow - white 

 a year later the king take -PRON- another wife . -PRON- be a beautiful   woman , but -PRON- be proud and arrogant , and -PRON- could not stand -PRON- if   anyone may surpass -PRON- in beauty . -PRON- have a magic mirror . every morning   -PRON- stand before -PRON- , look at -PRON- , and say : 
 to this the mirror answer : 
 then -PRON- be satisfied , for -PRON- know that the mirror speak the truth . 
 snow - white grow up and become ever more beautiful . when -PRON- be seven   year old -PRON- be as beautiful as the light of day , even more beautiful   than the queen -PRON- . 
 one day when the queen ask -PRON- mirror : 
 -PRON- answer : 
 the queen take fright and turn yellow and green with envy . from that   hour on whenever -PRON- look at snow - white -PRON- heart turn over inside -PRON-   body , so great be -PRON- hatred for the girl . the envy and pride grow ever   great , like a weed in -PRON- heart , until -PRON- have no peace day and night . 
 then -PRON- summon a huntsman and say to -PRON- , " take snow - white out into   the wood . i never want to see -PRON- again . kill -PRON- , and as proof that -PRON-   be dead bring -PRON- lung and -PRON- liver back to -PRON- . " 
 the huntsman obey and take snow - white into the wood . -PRON- take out -PRON-   hunting knife and be about to stab -PRON- into -PRON- innocent heart when -PRON-   begin to cry , say , " oh , dear huntsman , let -PRON- live . i will run into the   wild wood and never come back . " 
 because -PRON- be so beautiful the huntsman take pity on -PRON- , and -PRON- say ,   " run away , -PRON- poor child . " 
 -PRON- think , " the wild animal will soon devour -PRON- anyway , "   but still -PRON-   be as if a stone have fall from -PRON- heart , for -PRON- would not have to kill   -PRON- . 
 just then a young boar come run by . -PRON- kill -PRON- , cut out -PRON- lung   and liver , and take -PRON- back to the queen as proof of snow - white 's death .   the cook have to boil -PRON- with salt , and the wicked woman eat -PRON- ,   suppose that -PRON- have eat snow - white 's lung and liver . 
 the poor child be now all alone in the great forest , and -PRON- be so   afraid that -PRON- just look at all the leaf on the tree and do not   know what to do . then -PRON- begin to run . -PRON- run over sharp stone and   through thorn , and wild animal jump at -PRON- , but -PRON- do -PRON- no harm .   -PRON- run as far as -PRON- foot could carry -PRON- , and just as evening be about   to fall -PRON- see a little house and go inside in order to rest . 
 inside the house everything be small , but so neat and clean that no one   could say otherwise . there be a little table with a white tablecloth and   seven little plate , and each plate have a spoon , and there be seven   knife and fork and seven mug as well . against the wall there be seven   little bed , all stand in a row and cover with snow - white sheet . 
 because -PRON- be so hungry and thirsty snow - white eat a few vegetable and   a little bread from each little plate , and from each mug -PRON- drink a drop   of wine . afterward , because -PRON- be so tired , -PRON- lie down on a bed , but   none of -PRON- feel right -- one be too long , the other too short -- until   finally the seventh one be just right . -PRON- remain lie in -PRON- ,   entrust -PRON- to god , and fall asleep . 
 after dark the master of   the house return home . -PRON- be the seven   dwarf who pick and dig for ore in the mountain . -PRON- light -PRON- seven   candle , and as soon as -PRON- be light in -PRON- house -PRON- see that someone   have be there , for not everything be in the same order as -PRON- have leave   -PRON- . 
 the first one say , " who have be sit in -PRON- chair ? " 
 the second one , " who have be eat from -PRON- plate ? " 
 the third one , " who have be eat -PRON- bread ? " 
 the fourth one , " who have be eat -PRON- vegetable ? " 
 the fifth one , " who have be stick with -PRON- fork ? " 
 the sixth one , " who have be cut with -PRON- knife ? " 
 the seventh one , " who have be drink from -PRON- mug ? " 
 then the first one see a that there be a little imprint in -PRON- bed , and   say , " who step on -PRON- bed ? " 
 the other come run up and shout , " someone have be lie in mine as   well . " 
 but the seventh one , look at -PRON- bed , find snow - white lie there   asleep . the seven dwarf all come run up , and -PRON- cry out with   amazement . -PRON- fetch -PRON- seven candle and shine the light on   snow - white . " oh good heaven ! oh good heaven ! " -PRON- cry . " this child be   so beautiful ! " 
 -PRON- be so happy , that -PRON- do not wake -PRON- up , but let -PRON- continue to   sleep there in the bed . the seventh dwarf have to sleep with -PRON-   companion , one hour with each one , and then the night be do . 
 the next morning snow - white woke up , and when -PRON- see the seven dwarf -PRON-   be frightened . but -PRON- be friendly and ask , " what be -PRON- name ? " 
 " -PRON- name be snow - white , " -PRON- answer . 
 " how do -PRON- find -PRON- way to -PRON- house ? " the dwarfs ask further . 
 then -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- stepmother have try to kill -PRON- , that the   huntsman have spar -PRON- life , and that -PRON- have run the entire day , finally   come to -PRON- house . 
 the dwarfs say , " if -PRON- will keep house for -PRON- , and cook , make bed ,   wash , sew , and knit , and keep everything clean and orderly , then -PRON- can   stay with -PRON- , and -PRON- shall have everything that -PRON- want . " 
 " yes , " say snow - white , " with all -PRON- heart . " 
 so -PRON- keep house for -PRON- . every morning -PRON- go into the mountain   look for ore and gold , and in the evening when -PRON- come back home   -PRON- meal have to be ready . during the day the girl be alone . 
 the good dwarfs warn -PRON- , say , " be careful about -PRON- stepmother . -PRON-   will soon know that -PRON- be here . do not let anyone in . " 
 now the queen , believe that -PRON- have eat snow - white 's lung and liver ,   could only think that -PRON- be again the first and the most beautiful woman   of all . -PRON- step before -PRON- mirror and say : 
 -PRON- answer : 
 this startle the queen , for -PRON- know that the mirror do not lie , and -PRON-   realize that the huntsman have deceive -PRON- , and that snow - white be still   alive . then -PRON- think , and think again , how -PRON- could kill snow - white ,   for as long as long as -PRON- be not the most beautiful woman in the entire   land -PRON- envy would give -PRON- no rest . 
 at last -PRON- think of something . color -PRON- face , -PRON- disguise -PRON-   as an old peddler woman , so that no one would recognize -PRON- . in this   disguise -PRON- go to the house of the seven dwarf . knock on the door   -PRON- call out , " beautiful ware for sale , for sale ! " 
 snow - white peer out the window and say , " good day , dear woman , what do   -PRON- have for sale ? " 
 " good ware , beautiful ware , " -PRON- answer . " bodice lace in all color . "   and -PRON- take out one that be braid from colorful silk . " would -PRON- like   this one ? " 
 " i can let that honest woman in , " think snow - white , then unbolt the   door and buy the pretty bodice lace . 
 " child , " say the old woman , " how -PRON- look ! come , let -PRON- lace -PRON- up   properly . " 
 the unsuspecting snow - white stood before -PRON- and let -PRON- do up the new   lace , but the old woman pull so quickly and so hard that snow - white   could not breathe . 
 " -PRON- use to be the most beautiful one , " say the old woman , and hurry   away . 
 not long afterward , in the evening time , the seven dwarf come home . how   terrify -PRON- be when -PRON- see -PRON- dear snow - white lying on the   ground , not move at all , as though -PRON- be dead . -PRON- lift -PRON- up ,   and , see that -PRON- be too tightly laced , -PRON- cut the lace in two . then   -PRON- begin to breathe a little , and little by little -PRON- come back to life . 
 when the dwarfs hear what have happen -PRON- say , " the old peddler woman   be no one else but the godless queen . take care and let no one in when -PRON-   be not with -PRON- . " 
 when the wicked woman return home -PRON- go to -PRON- mirror and ask : 
 the mirror answer once again : 
 when -PRON- hear that , all -PRON- blood run to -PRON- heart because -PRON- know that   snow - white have come back to life . 
 " this time , " -PRON- say , " i shall think of something that will destroy -PRON- . " 
 then with the art of witchcraft , which -PRON- understand ,   -PRON- make a   poison comb . then -PRON- disguise -PRON- , take the form of a different   old woman . thus -PRON- go across the seven mountain to the seven dwarf ,   knock on the door , and call out , " good ware for sale , for sale ! " 
 snow - white look out and say , " go on -PRON- way . i be not allow to let   anyone in . " 
 " -PRON- surely may take a look , " say the old woman , pull out the poison   comb and hold -PRON- up .   the child like -PRON- so much that -PRON- let -PRON- be deceive , and -PRON-   open the door . 
 after -PRON- have agree on the purchase , the old woman say , " now let -PRON-   comb -PRON- hair properly . " 
 -PRON- have barely stick the comb into snow - white 's hair when the poison take   effect , and the girl fall down unconscious . 
 " -PRON- specimen of beauty , " say the wicked woman , " now -PRON- be finish . "   and -PRON- walk away . 
 fortunately -PRON- be almost evening , and the seven dwarf come home . when   -PRON- see snow - white lying on the ground as if -PRON- be dead , -PRON-   immediately suspect -PRON- stepmother . -PRON- examine -PRON- and find the   poison comb . -PRON- have scarcely pull -PRON- out when snow - white come to   -PRON- again and tell -PRON- what have happen . once again -PRON- warn -PRON-   to be on guard and not to open the door for anyone . 
 back at home the queen step before -PRON- mirror and say : 
 the mirror answer : 
 when the queen hear the mirror say this , -PRON- shake and tremble with   anger , " snow - white shall die , " -PRON- shout , " if -PRON- cost -PRON- -PRON- life ! " 
 then -PRON- go into -PRON- most secret room -- no one else be allow inside   -- and -PRON- make a poison , poison apple . from the outside -PRON- be   beautiful , white with red cheek , and anyone who see -PRON- would want -PRON- . but   anyone who may eat a little piece of -PRON- would die . then , color -PRON-   face , -PRON- disguise -PRON- as a peasant woman , and thus go across the   seven mountain to the seven dwarf . -PRON- knock on the door . 
 snow - white stick -PRON- head out the window and say , " i be not allow to   let anyone in . the dwarf have forbid -PRON- to do so . " 
 " that be all right with -PRON- , " answer the peasant woman . " i 'll easily get   rid of -PRON- apple . here , -PRON- will give -PRON- one of -PRON- . " 
 " no , " say snow - white , " i can not accept anything . " 
 " be -PRON- afraid of poison ? " ask the old woman . " look , -PRON- will cut the apple   in two . -PRON- eat the red half , and i shall eat the white half . " 
 now the apple have be so artfully make that only the red half be   poison . snow - white long for the beautiful apple , and when -PRON- see that   the peasant woman be eat part of -PRON- -PRON- could no longer resist , and   -PRON- stick -PRON- hand out and take the poison half . -PRON- barely have a bite   in -PRON- mouth when -PRON- fall to the ground dead . 
 the queen look at -PRON- with a gruesome stare , laugh loudly , and say ,   " white as snow , red as blood , black as ebony wood ! this time the dwarfs   can not awaken -PRON- . " 
 back at home -PRON- ask -PRON- mirror : 
 -PRON- finally answer : 
 then -PRON- envious heart be at rest , as well as an envious heart can be at   rest . 
 when the dwarfs come home that evening -PRON- find snow - white lying on the   ground . -PRON- be not breathe at all . -PRON- be dead . -PRON- lift -PRON- up and   look for something poisonous . -PRON- undo -PRON- lace . -PRON- comb -PRON-   hair . -PRON- wash -PRON- with water and wine . but nothing help . the dear   child be dead , and -PRON- remain dead . -PRON- lay -PRON- on a bier , and all   seven sit next to -PRON- and mourn for -PRON- and cry for three day . -PRON-   be go to bury -PRON- , but -PRON- still look as fresh as a live person ,   and still have -PRON- beautiful red cheek . 
 -PRON- say , " -PRON- can not bury -PRON- in the black earth , " and -PRON- have a   transparent glass coffin make , so -PRON- could be see from all side . -PRON-   lay -PRON- inside , and with golden letter write on -PRON- -PRON- name , and that   -PRON- be a princess . then -PRON- put the coffin outside on a mountain , and   one of -PRON- always stay with -PRON- and watch over -PRON- . the animal too   come and mourn for snow - white , first an owl , then a raven , and finally a   dove . 
 snow - white lay there in the coffin a long , long time , and -PRON- do not   decay , but look like -PRON- be asleep , for -PRON- be still as white as snow   and as red as blood , and as black - haired as ebony wood . 
 now -PRON- come to pass that a prince enter these wood and happen onto   the dwarfs ' house , where -PRON- seek shelter for the night . -PRON- see the   coffin on the mountain with beautiful snow - white in -PRON- , and -PRON- read what   be write on -PRON- with golden letter . 
 then -PRON- say to the dwarfs , " let -PRON- have the coffin . i will give -PRON-   anything -PRON- want for -PRON- . " 
 but the dwarf answer , " -PRON- will not sell -PRON- for all the gold in the   world . " 
 then -PRON- say , " then give -PRON- to -PRON- , for i can not live without be able to   see snow - white . i will honor -PRON- and respect -PRON- as -PRON- most cherished   one . " 
 as -PRON- thus speak , the good dwarf feel pity for -PRON- and give -PRON- the   coffin . the prince have -PRON- servant carry -PRON- away on -PRON- shoulder . but   then -PRON- happen that one of -PRON- stumble on some brush , and this   dislodge from snow - white 's throat the piece of poison apple that -PRON-   have bite off . not long afterward -PRON- open -PRON- eye , lift the lid   from -PRON- coffin , sit up , and be alive again . 
 " good heaven , where be i ? " -PRON- cry out . 
 the prince say joyfully , " -PRON- be with -PRON- . " -PRON- tell -PRON- what have   happen , and then say , " i love -PRON- more than anything else in the world .   come with -PRON- to -PRON- father 's castle . -PRON- shall become -PRON- wife . "   snow - white love -PRON- , and -PRON- go with -PRON- . -PRON- wedding be plan   with great splendor and majesty . 
 snow - white 's godless stepmother be also invite to the feast . after   put on -PRON- beautiful clothe -PRON- step before -PRON- mirror and say : 
 the wicked woman utter a curse , and -PRON- become so frightened , so   frightened , that -PRON- do not know what to do . at first -PRON- do not want to   go to the wedding , but -PRON- find no peace . -PRON- have to go and see the young   queen . when -PRON- arrive -PRON- recognize snow - white , and terrorize , -PRON-   could only stand there without move . 
 then -PRON- put a pair of iron shoe into burn coal . -PRON- be bring   forth with tong and place before -PRON- . -PRON- be force to step into the   red - hot shoe and dance until -PRON- fall down dead . 

 han dumb 

 there be a king who live happily with -PRON- daughter , -PRON- only child . quite suddenly the princess have a baby , but no one know who the father be . for some time the king be beside -PRON- . finally -PRON- order the princess to take the child to the church . a lemon would be place in -PRON- hand , and whoever -PRON- should give -PRON- to would be the child 's father and the princess 's husband . this happen , but only fine people be admit into the church . however , in the town there be a small , crooked , hunchbacked lad who be not very smart and who be therefore know as han dumb . -PRON- mingle with the other and slip into the church without be see . when the child reach out with the lemon , -PRON- be to han dumb ! 
 the princess be horrified , and the king be so take aback that -PRON- have -PRON- , the child , and han dumb place into a cask and set adrift at sea . the cask soon drift away , and when -PRON- be alone at sea the princess cry out bitterly , " -PRON- horrid , hunchbacked , impudent rogue , -PRON- be the cause of -PRON- suffering . why do -PRON- force -PRON- way into the church ? -PRON- have nothing to do with the child . " 
 " oh yes , " say han dumb . " i have a lot to do with -PRON- , because one day i wish that -PRON- would have a child , and -PRON- wish come true . " 
 " if that be so , then wish -PRON- something to eat . " 
 " i can do that too , " say han dumb , and -PRON- wish for a plate fill with potato . the princess would have like something good , but because -PRON- be so hungry -PRON- help -PRON- eat the potato . 
 after -PRON- have eat -PRON- fill , han dumb say , " now i shall wish -PRON- a fine ship ! " -PRON- have scarcely say this and -PRON- be sit in a splendid ship , with an excess of everything that -PRON- may want . 
 the helmsman steer straight for land , and as -PRON- be go ashore han dumb say , " here there shall be a castle ! " and there be a splendid castle there , and servant dress in gold come and lead the princess and the child inside , and when -PRON- be in the middle of the great hall , han dumb say , " now i wish to become a young and intelligent prince ! " then -PRON- hump disappear , and -PRON- be handsome and straight and friendly . -PRON- find favor with the princess , and -PRON- become -PRON- husband , and -PRON- live happily for a long time . 
 one day the old king get lose while out riding and come to -PRON- castle . -PRON- be amazed , because -PRON- have never see -PRON- before , and -PRON- go inside . the princess recognize -PRON- father at once , but -PRON- do not know who -PRON- be , for -PRON- think that -PRON- have long since drown in the ocean . -PRON- receive -PRON- with splendor , but when -PRON- want to go back home , -PRON- secretly place a golden goblet into -PRON- pocket . 
 after -PRON- have ride away -PRON- send some knight after -PRON- to stop -PRON- and see if -PRON- have not steal the golden goblet . -PRON- find -PRON- in -PRON- pocket and bring -PRON- back . -PRON- swear to the princess that -PRON- have not steal -PRON- and do not know how -PRON- come to be in -PRON- pocket . 
 -PRON- say , " -PRON- see , one should always be cautious about accuse another person . " with this -PRON- reveal -PRON- as -PRON- daughter . the king be overjoy , and -PRON- live happily together , and after -PRON- death han dumb become king . 

 rumpelstiltskin 

 the king say to the miller , " that be an art that i really like . if -PRON-   daughter be as skillful as -PRON- say , then bring -PRON- to -PRON- castle tomorrow ,   and i will put -PRON- to the test . " 
 when the girl be bring to -PRON- -PRON- lead -PRON- into a room that be entirely   fill with straw . give -PRON- a spin wheel and a reel , -PRON- say , " get   to work now . spin all night , and if by morning -PRON- have not spin this   straw into gold , then -PRON- will have to die . " then -PRON- -PRON- lock the   room , and -PRON- be there all alone . 
 the poor miller 's daughter sit there , and for -PRON- life -PRON- do not know   what to do . -PRON- have no idea how to spin straw into gold . -PRON- become more   and more afraid , and finally begin to cry . 
 then suddenly the door open . a little man step inside and say , " good   evening , mistress miller , why be -PRON- cry so ? " 
 " oh , " answer the girl , " i be suppose to spin straw into gold , and i do   not know how to do -PRON- . " 
 the little man say , " what will -PRON- give -PRON- if i spin -PRON- for -PRON- ? " 
 " -PRON- necklace , " say the girl . 
 the little man take the necklace , sit down before the spinning wheel , and   whir , whir , whir , three time pull , and the spool be full . then -PRON- put   another one on , and whir , whir , whir , three time pull , and the second   one be full as well . so -PRON- go until morning , and then all the straw be   spun , and all the spool be fill with gold . 
 at sunrise the king come , and when -PRON- see the gold -PRON- be surprised and   happy , but -PRON- heart become even more greedy for gold . -PRON- have the miller 's   daughter take to another room fill with straw . -PRON- be even large , and   -PRON- order -PRON- to spin -PRON- in one night , if -PRON- value -PRON- life . 
 the girl do not know what to do , and -PRON- cry . once again the door   open , and the little man appear . -PRON- say , " what will -PRON- give -PRON- if i   spin the straw into gold for -PRON- ? " 
 " the ring from -PRON- finger , " answer the girl . 
 the little man take the ring , and begin once again to whir with the   spin wheel . by morning -PRON- have spin all the straw into glisten gold .   the king be happy beyond measure when -PRON- see -PRON- , but -PRON- still do not   have -PRON- fill of gold . -PRON- have the miller 's daughter take to a still   large room fill with straw , and say , " tonight -PRON- must spin this too .   if -PRON- succe -PRON- shall become -PRON- wife . " -PRON- think , " even if -PRON- be only   a miller 's daughter , i will not find a rich wife in all the world . " 
 when the girl be alone the little man return for a third time . -PRON- say ,   " what will -PRON- give -PRON- if i spin the straw this time ? " 
 " i have nothing more that i could give -PRON- , " answer the girl . 
 " then promise -PRON- , after -PRON- be queen , -PRON- first child . " 
 " who know what will happen , " think the miller 's daughter , and not   know what else to do , -PRON- promise the little man what -PRON- demand . in   return the little man once again spin the straw into gold . 
 when in the morning the king come and find everything just as -PRON- desire ,   -PRON- marry -PRON- , and the beautiful miller 's daughter become queen . 
 a year later -PRON- bring a beautiful child to the world . -PRON- think no   more about the little man , but suddenly -PRON- appear in -PRON- room and say ,   " now give -PRON- that which -PRON- promise . " 
 the queen take fright and offer the little man all the wealth of the   kingdom if -PRON- would let -PRON- keep the child , but the little man say , " no .   something live be dearer to -PRON- than all the treasure of the world . " 
 then the queen begin lament and cry so much that the little man take   pity on -PRON- and say , " i will give -PRON- three day ' time . if by then -PRON-   know -PRON- name , then -PRON- shall keep -PRON- child . " 
 the queen spend the entire night thinking of all the name -PRON- have ever   hear . then -PRON- send a messenger into the country to inquire far and wide   what other name there be . when the little man return the next day -PRON-   begin with kaspar , melchior , balzer , and say in order all the name -PRON-   know . after each one the little man say , " that be not -PRON- name . " 
 the second day -PRON- send inquiry into the neighborhood as to what name   people have . -PRON- recite the most unusual and most curious name to the   little man : " be -PRON- name perhaps beastrib ? or muttoncalf ? or legstr ? " 
 but -PRON- always answer , " that be not -PRON- name . " 
 on the third day the messenger return and say , " i have not be able to   find a single new name , but when i be approach a high mountain in the   corner of the wood , there where the fox and the hare say good - night , i   see a little house . a fire be burn in front of the house , and an   altogether comical little man be jump around the fire , hop on one   leg and call out : 

 -PRON- can imagine how happy the queen be when -PRON- hear that name . soon   afterward the little man come in and ask , " now , madame queen , what be -PRON-   name ? " 
 -PRON- first ask , " be -PRON- name kunz ? " 
 " no . " 
 " be -PRON- name heinz ? " 
 " no . " 
 " be -PRON- name perhaps rumpelstiltskin ? " 
 " the devil tell -PRON- that ! the devil tell -PRON- that ! " shout the little   man , and with anger -PRON- stomp -PRON- right foot so hard into the ground that   -PRON- fall in up to -PRON- waist . then with both hand -PRON- take hold of -PRON- left   foot and rip -PRON- up the middle in two . 


 sweetheart roland 

 " be still , -PRON- child , " say the old woman , " and -PRON- shall have -PRON- . -PRON- stepsister have long deserve to die , and tonight when -PRON- be asleep i will come and chop off -PRON- head . just be sure to lie down at the far side of the bed , and push -PRON- close to the front . " 
 -PRON- would have be all over with the poor girl , but just then -PRON- be stand in a corner , and -PRON- overhear everything . -PRON- be not allow to go outside all day long , and at bedtime -PRON- wicked stepsister have -PRON- get into bed first , so -PRON- would be lie next to the wall . however , after the witch 's daughter fall asleep , the stepdaughter gently push -PRON- to the front side of the bed , and -PRON- take -PRON- place back against the wall . 
 in the night the old woman creep into the bedroom hold an ax in -PRON- right hand while feel with -PRON- left hand for anyone lie at the front of the bed . then -PRON- grasp the axe with both hand and chop off -PRON- own child 's head . 
 after the witch have go away , the girl get up and go to -PRON- sweetheart , whose name be roland , and knock at -PRON- door . when -PRON- come out , -PRON- say to -PRON- , " listen , dear roland , -PRON- must flee at once . -PRON- stepmother try to kill -PRON- , but -PRON- kill -PRON- own child instead . when daylight come , and -PRON- see what -PRON- have do , -PRON- will be lose . " 
 " -PRON- have better take -PRON- magic wand , " say roland , " or -PRON- will not be able to escape if -PRON- come after -PRON- . " 
 the girl get the magic wand , then -PRON- take the dead girl 's head and drop three drop of blood onto the floor , one in front of the bed , one in the kitchen , and one on the step . then -PRON- hurry away with -PRON- sweetheart . 
 the next morning when the old witch get up , -PRON- call -PRON- daughter , want to give -PRON- the apron . but the daughter do not come . so -PRON- shout , " where be -PRON- ? " 
 " here on the step . -PRON- be sweeping , " answer the first drop of blood . 
 the old woman go out , but see no one on the step , -PRON- shout again , " where be -PRON- ? " 
 " here in the kitchen . -PRON- be warm -PRON- , " shout the second drop of blood . 
 -PRON- go into the kitchen , but find no one . so -PRON- shout again , " where be -PRON- ? " 
 " here in the bed . -PRON- be sleep , " shout the third drop of blood . 
 -PRON- go into the bedroom and approach the bed . what do -PRON- see there ? -PRON- own child swimming in blood and whose head -PRON- -PRON- have cut off . 
 the witch fly into a rage , jump to the window , and as -PRON- could see far into the world , -PRON- see -PRON- stepdaughter hurry away with -PRON- sweetheart roland . " that will not help -PRON- , -PRON- shout . " even if -PRON- have already go a long way , -PRON- will not escape from -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- put on -PRON- many - league boot , in which -PRON- cover an hour 's walk with every step , and -PRON- be not long before -PRON- overtake -PRON- . however , when the girl see the old woman stride toward -PRON- , -PRON- use the magic wand to transform -PRON- sweetheart roland into a lake , and -PRON- into a duck swimming in the middle of the lake . 
 the witch stand on the shore and throw in piece of bread , try with great effort to lure the duck to -PRON- . but the duck do not give in , and the old woman have to return home that night without success . afterward the girl and -PRON- sweetheart roland return to -PRON- natural shape , and -PRON- walk on through the whole night until daybreak . then the girl transform -PRON- into a beautiful flower in the middle of a briar hedge , and -PRON- sweetheart roland into a fiddler . 
 -PRON- be not long before the witch come stride up toward -PRON- . -PRON- say to the musician , " dear musician , may i pick that beautiful flower for -PRON- ? " 
 " oh , yes , " -PRON- reply . " and i will play for -PRON- while -PRON- be do -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- crawl hastily into the hedge and be just about to pick the flower , know perfectly well who -PRON- be , when -PRON- begin to play . -PRON- be force to dance , whether -PRON- want to or not , for -PRON- be magic dance music . the faster -PRON- play , the more violently -PRON- be force to jump . the thorn tear the clothe off -PRON- body , prick -PRON- until -PRON- bleed , and as -PRON- do not stop , -PRON- have to dance until -PRON- fall down dead . 
 -PRON- be now free , so roland say , " now i will go to -PRON- father and arrange for -PRON- wedding . " 
 " i 'll stay here and wait for -PRON- , " say the girl . " and -PRON- will transform -PRON- into a red boundary stone , so that no one will recognize -PRON- . " 
 so roland set forth , and the girl , in the shape of a red boundary stone , stand there and wait for -PRON- sweetheart . but when roland arrive home , -PRON- be snare by another woman , who cause -PRON- to forget the girl . the poor girl wait there a long time , but finally , when -PRON- fail to return , -PRON- grow sad and transform -PRON- into a flower , think , " someone will surely come this way and trample -PRON- down . " 
 however , -PRON- happen that a shepherd who be herd -PRON- sheep in the field see the flower . as -PRON- be so beautiful , -PRON- pick -PRON- , take -PRON- home with -PRON- , and put -PRON- away in -PRON- chest . from that time forth , strange thing happen in the shepherd 's house . when -PRON- arise in the morning all the work be already do . the room be sweep , the table and bench clean , the fire on the hearth be light , and the water be fetch , and at noon , when -PRON- come home , the table be already set , and a good dinner serve . -PRON- do not know how this happen , for -PRON- never see anyone in -PRON- house , and no one could have hide -PRON- in -PRON- . 
 -PRON- be , of course , pleased with this good service , but with time -PRON- become so afraid that -PRON- go to a wise woman and ask for -PRON- advice . 
 the wise woman say , " there be magic behind -PRON- . be on the watch very early some morning , and if anything be move in the room , if -PRON- see anything , no matter what -PRON- be , throw a white cloth over -PRON- , and then the magic will be stop . " 
 the shepherd do what -PRON- tell -PRON- to do , and the next morning just at dawn , -PRON- see the chest open and the flower come out . -PRON- quickly jump towards -PRON- and throw a white cloth over -PRON- . instantly the transformation come to an end , and a beautiful girl stand before -PRON- , who admit to -PRON- that -PRON- have be the flower , and that -PRON- have be do -PRON- housekeeping . -PRON- tell -PRON- -PRON- story . -PRON- like -PRON- and ask -PRON- to marry -PRON- , but -PRON- answer , " no , " for -PRON- want to remain faithful to -PRON- sweetheart roland , even though -PRON- have abandon -PRON- . nevertheless , -PRON- promise not to go away , and to continue keep house for the shepherd . 
 the time draw near when roland be to be mar . accord to an old custom in that country , -PRON- be announce that all the girl be to attend the wedding and sing in honor of the bridal pair . when the faithful girl hear this , -PRON- grow so sad that -PRON- think -PRON- heart would break , and -PRON- do not want to go . but the other girl come and take -PRON- . when -PRON- be -PRON- turn to sing , -PRON- decline , until at last -PRON- be the only one left , and then -PRON- could not refuse . but when -PRON- begin -PRON- song , and -PRON- reach roland 's ear , -PRON- jump up and shout , " i know that voice . that be the true bride . i do not want anyone else . " everything -PRON- have forget , and which have vanish from -PRON- mind , have suddenly come home again to -PRON- heart . 
 thus the faithful girl be married to -PRON- sweetheart roland . -PRON- grief come to an end , and -PRON- joy begin . 

 the fox and the cat 

 the fox , fill with arrogance , examine the cat from head to foot , and   for a long time do not know whether -PRON- should give an answer . at last -PRON-   say , " oh , -PRON- poor beard - licker , -PRON- speckle fool , -PRON- hungry mouse   hunter , what be -PRON- think ? have -PRON- the nerve to ask how i be do ?   what do -PRON- know ? how many trick do -PRON- understand ? " 
 " i understand but one , " answer the cat , modestly . 
 " what kind of a trick be -PRON- ? " ask the fox . 
 " when the dog be chase -PRON- , i can jump into a tree and save -PRON- . " 
 " be that all ? " say the fox . " i be master of a hundred trick , and in   addition to that i have a sackful of cunning . i feel sorry for -PRON- . come   with -PRON- , and i will teach -PRON- how one escape from the dog . " 
 just then a hunter come by with four dog . the cat jump nimbly up a   tree , and sit down at -PRON- top , where the branch and foliage completely   hide -PRON- . 
 " untie -PRON- sack , mr . fox , untie -PRON- sack , " the cat shout to -PRON- ,   but the dog have already seize -PRON- , and be hold -PRON- fast . 
 " oh , mr . fox , " shout the cat . " -PRON- and -PRON- hundred trick be leave   in the lurch . if -PRON- be able to climb like i can , -PRON- would not have   lose -PRON- life . " 

 old hildebrand 

 one day -PRON- say to -PRON- , " listen , dear woman , -PRON- have think -PRON- through , and i know how the two of -PRON- can spend an entire day together . on wednesday tell -PRON- husband that -PRON- be sick and lie down in bed moaning and groaning . carry on like that until sunday , when in -PRON- sermon i will preach that if anyone have a sick child at home , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick sister , brother , or anyone else , then that person should make a pilgrimage to mount cuckoo in italy . there , for a kreuzer , one can get a peck of laurel leaf , and this person 's sick child , sick husband , sick wife , sick father , sick mother , sick sister , brother , or anyone else , will be heal on the spot . " 
 " i 'll do -PRON- , " say the peasant 's wife . so on wednesday -PRON- go to bed , moaning and groaning . -PRON- husband do everything for -PRON- that -PRON- could think of , but nothing help . sunday arrive , and the peasant 's wife say , " i 'm so miserable that i must be near death , but before i die , i would like to hear the sermon that the priest be go to give today . " 
 the peasant answer , " oh , -PRON- child , -PRON- can not go out . if -PRON- get up -PRON- may make -PRON- bad . look , -PRON- will go to church and pay close attention and tell -PRON- everything that the priest say . " 
 " good , " say the peasant 's wife . " go and pay close attention , and then tell -PRON- everything that -PRON- have hear . " 
 so the peasant go to church , and the priest begin to preach , say that if anyone have a sick child at home , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick sister , brother , or anyone else , then that person should make a pilgrimage to mount cuckoo in italy , where a peck of laurel leave cost one kreuzer , and this person 's sick child , sick husband , sick wife , sick father , sick mother , sick sister , brother , or anyone else , will be heal on the spot , and that anyone who may want to undertake this trip should come to -PRON- after the mass , and -PRON- would give -PRON- a sack for the laurel leave and a kreuzer . 
 no one be happy than the peasant , and immediately follow the mass -PRON- go to the priest and ask for the laurel sack and the kreuzer . then -PRON- go home , and even before go inside call out , " hurrah ! -PRON- dear wife , -PRON- be just as good as cure . the priest preach today that whoever have a sick child at home , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick sister , brother , or anyone else , then that person should make a pilgrimage to mount cuckoo in italy , where a peck of laurel leave cost one kreuzer , and this person 's sick child , sick husband , sick wife , sick father , sick mother , sick sister , brother , or anyone else , will be heal on the spot , and i get the laurel sack and the kreuzer from the priest , and be go to take off immediately , so -PRON- can get good as soon as possible . " and with that -PRON- set forth . 
 -PRON- have scarcely leave before -PRON- wife get out of bed , and the priest arrive . but let 's leave -PRON- for awhile and see what happen to the peasant . -PRON- be hurry along in order to arrive at mount cuckoo as soon as possible , when -PRON- meet a kinsman . now this kinsman be an egg man , who be just return from market , where -PRON- have sell -PRON- egg . 
 " bless -PRON- ! " say the kinsman . " where be -PRON- off to in such a hurry ? " 
 " in all eternity ! " say the peasant . " -PRON- wife have become sick , and today in the priest 's sermon i hear that if anyone have a sick child at home , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick sister , brother , or anyone else , then that person should make a pilgrimage to mount cuckoo in italy , where a peck of laurel leave cost one kreuzer , and this person 's sick child , sick husband , sick wife , sick father , sick mother , sick sister , brother , or anyone else , will be heal on the spot , and i get the laurel sack and the kreuzer from the priest , and now i be on -PRON- way . " 
 " listen , kinsman , " say the peasant 's kinsman . " do n't be so simple as to believe that . do -PRON- know what ? the priest want to spend an entire day alone with -PRON- wife . -PRON- have give -PRON- this task just to get -PRON- out from under -PRON- foot . " 
 " -PRON- ! " the peasant say . " how i would like to know if that be true ! " 
 " do -PRON- know what ? " say -PRON- kinsman , " just climb into -PRON- egg basket , and i will carry -PRON- home , and -PRON- can see for -PRON- . " 
 and that be just what happen . the peasant get into the egg basket , and -PRON- kinsman carry -PRON- home . when -PRON- arrive there , the good time have already start . the peasant 's wife have slaughter almost everything in the farmyard and have make pancake , and the priest be there with -PRON- fiddle . the kinsman knock at the door , and the peasant 's wife ask who be there . 
 " -PRON- be -PRON- , kinswoman , " say the kinsman . " can -PRON- give -PRON- shelter for the night ? i do not sell -PRON- egg at the market , so now i have to carry -PRON- back home , but -PRON- be too heavy , and i can not make -PRON- . -PRON- be already dark . " 
 " well , " say the peasant 's wife , " -PRON- have come at a very inconvenient time , but -PRON- can not be help . just sit down over there on the bench by the stove . " so the kinsman take a seat on the bench and set -PRON- pack basket down beside -PRON- . and the priest and the peasant 's wife proceed to carry on . 
 after a while the priest say , " listen , -PRON- dear woman , -PRON- be such a good singer . sing something for -PRON- . " 
 " no , " say the peasant 's wife , " i can not sing anymore . i could sing well when i be young , but that be all behind -PRON- now . " 
 " oh , " say the priest , " do sing just a little . " 
 so the peasant 's wife start to sing : 
 and the priest sing back : 
 then the kinsman chime in ( oh , i have to tell -PRON- that the peasant 's name be hildebrand ) , and sing out : 
 the peasant , from inside the basket , sing forth : 
 with that -PRON- jump from the basket , and with blow -PRON- drive the priest out of the house . 

 faithful johanne 

 faithful johanne be -PRON- favorite servant , and be so call , because -PRON- have be so loyal to -PRON- for -PRON- whole life long . when -PRON- approach the bed the king say to -PRON- , " most faithful johanne , i feel that -PRON- end be near . -PRON- only concern be for -PRON- son . -PRON- be still young and may not always have the good judgment . i will not be able to close -PRON- eye in peace if -PRON- do not promise to teach -PRON- everything that -PRON- ought to know , and to be -PRON- foster father . " 
 faithful johanne answer , " i will not forsake -PRON- , and will serve -PRON- faithfully , even if -PRON- cost -PRON- -PRON- life . " 
 at this , the old king say , " then i will die in comfort and peace , " add , " after -PRON- death , show -PRON- the entire castle -- all the chamber , hall , and vault , and all the treasure which lie therein . but do not show -PRON- the last chamber in the long gallery , which contain the portrait of the princess of the golden roof . if -PRON- see that picture , -PRON- will fall violently in love with -PRON- , will fall down unconscious , and will put -PRON- at great risk for -PRON- sake . -PRON- must protect -PRON- from that . " 
 after faithful johanne have once more give -PRON- promise to the old king about this , the latter say no more , but lay -PRON- head on -PRON- pillow and die . 
 after the old king have be carry to -PRON- grave , faithful johanne tell the young king all that -PRON- have promise -PRON- father on -PRON- deathbed , and say , " i will surely keep -PRON- promise , and will be loyal to -PRON- as i have be loyal to -PRON- , even if -PRON- should cost -PRON- -PRON- life . " 
 when the mourning be over , faithful johanne say to the young king , " -PRON- be now time for -PRON- to see -PRON- inheritance . i will show -PRON- -PRON- father 's castle . " then -PRON- take -PRON- everywhere , up and down , and let -PRON- see all the rich and the magnificent chamber . but there be one chamber which -PRON- do not open , the one that contain the dangerous portrait . now the portrait be so place that when the door be open one look straight at -PRON- . -PRON- be so masterfully paint that -PRON- seem to live and breathe and to be the most charming beautiful thing in the whole world . 
 the young king notice that faithful johanne always walk past this one door , and say , " why do -PRON- never open this one for -PRON- ? " 
 -PRON- reply , " there be something in there that would frighten -PRON- . " 
 the king answer " i have see the entire castle , and i want to know what be in this room as well . " and -PRON- be about to break open the door by force . 
 faithful johanne hold -PRON- back , say , " i promise -PRON- father before -PRON- death that -PRON- should not see inside this chamber . -PRON- could bring great misfortune on -PRON- and on -PRON- . " 
 " oh , no ! " reply the young king . " if i do not go in , -PRON- will be -PRON- certain downfall . i shall have no rest day or night until i have see inside with -PRON- own eye . i shall not leave here until -PRON- have unlock the door . " 
 faithful johanne see that there be no other way . with a heavy heart and many sigh , -PRON- take the key from the large ring . after open the door , -PRON- go in first , think that -PRON- could block king 's view of the portrait , that the king would not see -PRON- in front of -PRON- . but what good do -PRON- do ? the king stand on tiptoe and see the portrait over faithful johanne 's shoulder . after see the girl 's portrait , which be so magnificent and glisten with gold and precious stone , -PRON- fall unconscious to the ground . 
 faithful johanne pick -PRON- up , carry -PRON- to -PRON- bed , and sorrowfully think , " misfortune have befall -PRON- , dear lord . how will -PRON- end ? " then -PRON- strengthen the king with wine , until -PRON- regain consciousness . 
 the king 's first word be , " oh , whose portrait be that beautiful picture ? " 
 " that be the princess of the golden roof , " answer faithful johanne . 
 the king continue , " -PRON- love for -PRON- be so great , that if all the leaf on all the tree be tongue , -PRON- would not be able to express -PRON- . i will risk -PRON- life to win -PRON- . -PRON- be -PRON- most faithful johanne . -PRON- must help -PRON- . " 
 the faithful servant think to -PRON- for a long time how to approach the matter , for -PRON- be difficult even to come into view of the king 's daughter . finally -PRON- think of a way , and say to the king , " everything which -PRON- have about -PRON- be of gold -- table , chair , dish , cup , bowl , and household implement . among -PRON- treasure be five ton of gold . have the royal goldsmith fashion one ton into all manner of vessel and utensil , into all kind of bird , wild beast , and strange animal . -PRON- will like these thing , and -PRON- will go there with -PRON- and to try -PRON- luck . " 
 the king summon all the goldsmith , and -PRON- have to work night and day until at last the most splendid thing be prepare . when everything have be load on board a ship , faithful johanne disguise -PRON- as a merchant , and the king have to do the same thing in order to make -PRON- quite unrecognizable . then -PRON- sail across the sea , and sail on until -PRON- come to the city where the princess of the golden roof live . 
 faithful johanne have the king stay behind on the ship and wait for -PRON- . " perhaps i shall bring the princess with -PRON- , " -PRON- say . " therefore see that everything be in order . have the golden vessel set out and the whole ship decorate . " then -PRON- put all kind of golden thing into -PRON- apron , go on shore and walk straight to the royal castle . when -PRON- enter the courtyard of the castle , a beautiful girl be stand there by the well with two golden bucket in -PRON- hand , drawing water with -PRON- . -PRON- be just turn around to carry away the sparkling water when -PRON- see the stranger and ask who -PRON- be . 
 -PRON- answer , " i be a merchant , " open -PRON- apron , and let -PRON- look in . 
 " oh , what beautiful golden thing , " -PRON- cry , put -PRON- bucket down and look at the golden ware one after the other . then the girl say , " the princess must see these thing . -PRON- take such great pleasure in golden thing , that -PRON- will buy all -PRON- have . " take -PRON- by the hand , -PRON- lead -PRON- upstairs , for -PRON- be the princess 's chambermaid . 
 when the princess see the ware , -PRON- be quite delighted and say , " -PRON- be so beautifully make that i will buy -PRON- all from -PRON- . " 
 but faithful johanne say , " i be only the servant of a rich merchant . the thing i have here be not to be compare with those -PRON- master have in -PRON- ship . -PRON- be the most beautiful and valuable thing that have ever be make in gold . " when -PRON- want to have everything bring up to -PRON- , -PRON- say , " there be so much that -PRON- would take a great many day to do that , and so many room would be require to exhibit -PRON- , that -PRON- house be not big enough . " 
 this make -PRON- all the more curious and desirous , so at last -PRON- say , " take -PRON- to the ship . i will go there -PRON- and see -PRON- master 's treasure . " 
 faithful johanne happily lead -PRON- to the ship , and when the king behold -PRON- , -PRON- see that -PRON- be even more beautiful than the portrait , and -PRON- think that -PRON- heart would surely break . then -PRON- board the ship , and the king lead -PRON- inside . but faithful johanne remain with the helmsman and order the ship to be push off , say , " set all the sail and fly like a bird in the air . " 
 inside , the king show -PRON- the golden vessel , every one of -PRON- , and also the wild beast and strange animal . many hour go by while -PRON- be look at everything , and in -PRON- delight -PRON- do not notice that the ship be sail away . after -PRON- have look at the last item , -PRON- thank the merchant and want to go home , but when -PRON- come to the side of the ship , -PRON- see that -PRON- be on the high sea far from land , and speed onward at full sail . 
 " oh ! " -PRON- cry in alarm " i 've be betray . -PRON- have be kidnap and have fall into the power of a merchant . i would rather die ! " 
 take -PRON- by the hand , the king say , " i be not a merchant . i be a king , and of no low birth than -PRON- be . if i have trick -PRON- into come with -PRON- , -PRON- be only because of -PRON- great love for -PRON- . the first time i see -PRON- portrait , i fall to the ground unconscious . " 
 when the princess of the golden roof be comfort when -PRON- hear this . -PRON- heart yield to -PRON- , and -PRON- willingly consent to marry -PRON- . 
 now -PRON- so happen that while -PRON- be sail onward on the high sea , faithful johanne , who be sit at the front of the ship make music , see three raven fly through the air towards -PRON- . -PRON- stop play and listen to what -PRON- be say to each other , for -PRON- could understand -PRON- . 
 one cry " oh , -PRON- be carry home the princess of the golden roof . " 
 " yes , " reply the second , " but -PRON- do not have -PRON- yet . " 
 the third one say , " yes , -PRON- have -PRON- . -PRON- be sit beside -PRON- in the ship . " 
 then the first one begin again , cry , " what good will that do -PRON- ? when -PRON- reach land a chestnut horse will leap forward to meet -PRON- , and the prince will want to mount -PRON- , but if -PRON- do that , -PRON- will leap up into the air with -PRON- , and -PRON- will never see -PRON- bride again . " 
 the second one speak , " be there no escape ? " 
 " oh , yes , if someone else quickly mount -PRON- , take the gun from -PRON- saddlebag , and shoot the horse dead , then young king will be rescue . but who know that ? and if anyone do know -PRON- , and tell -PRON- to the king , -PRON- will be turn to stone from -PRON- toe to -PRON- knee . " 
 then the second raven say , " i know more than that . even if the horse be kill , still the young king will not keep -PRON- bride . when -PRON- enter the castle together , a ready - make wedding shirt will be lie there on a platter . -PRON- will appear to be weave of gold and silver , but -PRON- be nothing but sulfur and pitch . if -PRON- put -PRON- on , -PRON- will burn -PRON- to the very marrow and bone . " 
 the third one speak , " be there no escape at all ? " 
 " oh , yes , " reply the second raven . " if anyone with glove on seize the garment and throw -PRON- into the fire and burn -PRON- up , the young king will be save . but what good will that do ? if anyone know -PRON- and tell -PRON- to the king , half -PRON- body will become stone , from -PRON- knee to -PRON- heart . " 
 then the third raven say , " i know still more . even if the wedding shirt be burn up , still the young king will not have -PRON- bride . after the wedding , when the dancing begin and the young queen be dance , -PRON- will suddenly turn pale and fall down as if dead . if someone do not lift -PRON- up and draw three drop of blood from -PRON- right breast and spit -PRON- out again , -PRON- will die . but if anyone who know that reveal -PRON- , -PRON- entire body will turn to stone , from the crown of -PRON- head to the sol of -PRON- foot . " 
 after the raven have thus speak -PRON- fly away . faithful johanne have understand everything well . from that time forth -PRON- become quiet and sad , for if -PRON- conceal what -PRON- have hear from -PRON- master , -PRON- would bring misfortune to the king , but if -PRON- reveal -PRON- to -PRON- , then -PRON- -PRON- would have to sacrifice -PRON- life . 
 finally -PRON- say to -PRON- , " i will save -PRON- master , even if -PRON- bring destruction on -PRON- . " 
 when -PRON- land , what the raven foretell do indeed happen , and a magnificent chestnut horse spring forward . 
 " excellent ! " say the king . " -PRON- shall carry -PRON- to -PRON- castle . " 
 -PRON- be about to mount -PRON- when faithful johanne push in front of -PRON- , quickly jump onto the horse , draw the gun from -PRON- saddlebag , and shoot the horse . 
 the king 's other servant , who be not very fond of faithful johanne , shout , " how shameful to kill the beautiful animal that be to have carry the king to -PRON- castle . " 
 but the king say , " hold -PRON- peace and leave -PRON- alone . -PRON- be -PRON- most faithful johanne . who know what good may come of this ? " 
 -PRON- enter the castle , and in the hall there stand a platter on which lie the wedding shirt that appear to be make of gold and silver . the young king go towards -PRON- and be about to take hold of -PRON- , but faithful johanne push -PRON- away , seize -PRON- with glove , carry -PRON- quickly to the fire , and burn -PRON- up . 
 the other servant begin to murmur again , say , " look , now -PRON- be even burn up the king 's wedding shirt . " 
 but the young king say , " who know what good -PRON- may have do ? leave -PRON- alone . -PRON- be -PRON- most faithful johanne . " 
 and now the wedding take place . the dance begin , with the bride also take part . faithful johanne be watchful and look into -PRON- face . suddenly -PRON- turn pale and fall to the ground as if -PRON- be dead . -PRON- run quickly to -PRON- , pick -PRON- up and carry -PRON- into a chamber . -PRON- lay -PRON- down , then kneel and suck three drop of blood from -PRON- right breast , and spat -PRON- out . immediately -PRON- breathe again and regain consciousness . the young king see what have happen , and not know why faithful johanne have do -PRON- , grow angry and shout , " throw -PRON- into prison . " 
 the next morning faithful johanne be condemn and lead to the gallow . stand high on the platform and about to be execute , -PRON- say , " everyone who be condemn to die be permit before -PRON- end to say one last thing . may i too have this right ? " 
 " yes , " answer the king . " -PRON- be grant this right . " 
 faithful johanne say , " i have be unjustly condemn , and have always be loyal to -PRON- , and -PRON- relate how -PRON- have hear the conversation of the raven at sea , and how -PRON- have have to do all these thing in order to save -PRON- master . 
 then the king cry , " oh , -PRON- most faithful johanne , pardon ! pardon ! bring -PRON- down . " 
 but as faithful johanne speak the last word , -PRON- fall down lifeless and turn to stone . 
 this cause the king and the queen great grief , and the king say , " oh , i have reward -PRON- very badly for -PRON- great loyalty . " -PRON- then order the stone figure to be take up and place in -PRON- bedroom next to -PRON- bed . every time that -PRON- look at -PRON- -PRON- weep , say , " oh , if only i could bring -PRON- back to life again , -PRON- most faithful johanne . " 
 some time pass and the queen bear twin , two son who grow fast and be -PRON- delight . once when the queen be at church and the two child be sit beside -PRON- father and playing , -PRON- again look sadly at the stone statue and say , " oh , if only i could bring -PRON- back to life again , -PRON- most faithful johanne . " 
 then the stone begin to speak and say , " -PRON- can bring -PRON- back to life again if -PRON- will in return give up what be dear to -PRON- . " 
 the king cry , " for -PRON- i will give up everything i have in the world . " 
 the stone continue , " if -PRON- will cut off the head of -PRON- two child with -PRON- own hand , then sprinkle -PRON- blood on -PRON- , i shall be restore to life . " 
 the king be horrified when -PRON- hear that -PRON- would have to kill -PRON- own dear child , but -PRON- think of faithful johanne 's great loyalty , and how -PRON- have die for -PRON- , then draw -PRON- sword , and with -PRON- own hand cut off the child 's head . and when -PRON- have smear the stone with -PRON- blood , -PRON- return to life , and faithful johanne stand before -PRON- , again healthy and well . 
 -PRON- say to the king , " -PRON- loyalty shall not go unrewarded , " then take the child 's head , -PRON- put -PRON- on again , then rub the wound with -PRON- blood , at which -PRON- become immediately whole again , and jump about and go on play as if nothing have happen . 
 the king be overjoy . when -PRON- see the queen come -PRON- hide faithful johanne and the two child in a large chest . when -PRON- enter , -PRON- say to -PRON- , " have -PRON- be pray in the church ? " 
 " yes , -PRON- answer , " but i have constantly be think about faithful johanne and what misfortune have befall -PRON- because of -PRON- . " 
 then -PRON- say , " dear wife , -PRON- can give -PRON- -PRON- life again , but -PRON- will cost -PRON- -PRON- two little son . -PRON- will have to sacrifice -PRON- . " 
 the queen turn pale , and -PRON- heart fill with terror , but -PRON- say , " -PRON- owe -PRON- to -PRON- for -PRON- great loyalty . " 
 the king rejoice to hear that -PRON- agree with -PRON- , then -PRON- open up the chest and bring forth faithful johanne and the child , say , " god be praise ! faithful johanne have be save , and -PRON- have -PRON- little son again as well . " -PRON- tell -PRON- how everything have happen . then -PRON- live happily together until -PRON- die . 


 the little peasant 

 one day -PRON- say to -PRON- , " listen , i have a good idea . -PRON- kinsman the   cabinetmaker should make -PRON- a calf out of wood and paint -PRON- brown so that   -PRON- look like any other calf , and with time -PRON- be sure to grow big and be   a cow . " 
 -PRON- wife like this idea , and -PRON- kinsman the cabinetmaker skillfully   put together the calf and plan -PRON- , then paint -PRON- just right . -PRON- make   -PRON- with -PRON- head hang down as if -PRON- be graze . 
 when the cow be be drive out the next morning the little peasant   call to the herder and say , " look , i have a little calf here , but -PRON- be   still small and have to be carry . " 
 the herder say , " all right , " and take -PRON- in -PRON- arm -PRON- carry -PRON-   to the pasture where -PRON- set -PRON- in the grass . 
 the little calf stand there like one that be grazing , and the herder   say , " -PRON- will soon be walk by -PRON- . just look how -PRON- be already   grazing . " 
 that evening when -PRON- be about to drive the herd home again , -PRON- say to   the calf , " if -PRON- can stand there and eat -PRON- fill , -PRON- can also walk on   -PRON- four leg . i do not want to carry -PRON- home again in -PRON- arm . " 
 when the herder drive the cow through the village the little peasant   be stand outside -PRON- door wait for -PRON- little calf . -PRON- be missing ,   and -PRON- ask where -PRON- be . 
 the herder answer , " -PRON- be still stand out there graze . -PRON- would   not stop and come with -PRON- . " 
 the little peasant say , " oh , i must have -PRON- animal back again . " 
 then together -PRON- go back to the pasture , but someone have steal the   calf , and -PRON- be go . 
 the herder say , " -PRON- must have run away . " 
 the little peasant say , " do n't tell -PRON- that , " and -PRON- take the herder   before the mayor , who condemn -PRON- for -PRON- carelessness , and require -PRON-   to give the little peasant a cow for the lost calf . 
 the little peasant and -PRON- wife now have the cow that -PRON- have long   want . -PRON- be very glad , but -PRON- have no feed for -PRON- , and could give   -PRON- nothing to eat , so -PRON- soon have to be slaughter . 
 -PRON- salt the meat , and the little peasant go to town to sell the   hide , hop to buy a new calf with the proceed . 
 on the way -PRON- come to a mill , and there sit a raven with broken wing .   out of pity -PRON- pick -PRON- up and wrap -PRON- in the hide . 
 but then the weather turn very bad with a wind and rain storm . unable   to continue on -PRON- way , -PRON- return to the mill and ask for shelter . 
 the miller 's wife be alone in the house , and -PRON- say to the little   peasant , " -PRON- can sleep in the straw there , " and -PRON- give -PRON- a piece of   bread and cheese . 
 the little peasant eat and then lie down with -PRON- hide at -PRON- side . the   woman think , " -PRON- be tired and have fall asleep . " 
 in the meantime the priest arrive . the miller 's wife receive -PRON-   well , and say , " -PRON- husband be out , so -PRON- can have a feast . " 
 the little peasant listen , and when -PRON- hear -PRON- talk about   feast -PRON- be angry that -PRON- have have to make do with a piece of bread and   cheese . then the woman serve up four different thing : a roast , salad ,   cake , and wine . -PRON- be just about to sit down and eat when someone   knock on the outside door . 
 the woman say , " oh , god , -PRON- be -PRON- husband . " -PRON- quickly hide the roast   inside the tile stove , the wine under the pillow , the salad on top of the   bed , the cake under the bed , and the priest in the hallway chest . 
 then open the door for -PRON- husband , -PRON- say , " thank heaven , -PRON- be   back again . that be such a storm , as if the world be come to an end . " 
 the miller see the little peasant lie in the straw and ask , " what   be that fellow do there ? " 
 " oh , " say -PRON- wife , " the poor rascal come in the storm and rain and   ask for shelter , so i give -PRON- a piece of bread and cheese , and let -PRON-   lie in the straw . " 
 the man say , " i have nothing against that , but hurry and get -PRON-   something to eat . " 
 -PRON- wife say , " i have nothing but bread and cheese . " 
 " i 'll be satisfied with anything , " answer -PRON- husband . " bread and   cheese will be good enough for -PRON- . " then -PRON- look at the little peasant   and say , " come and eat some more with -PRON- . " 
 the little peasant do not have to be ask twice , but get up and eat . 
 afterward the miller see the hide with the raven in -PRON- lie on the   ground , and ask , " what do -PRON- have there ? " 
 the little peasant answer , " i have a fortune - teller inside -PRON- . " 
 " can -PRON- predict anything for -PRON- ? " say the miller . 
 " why not ? " answer the little peasant . " but -PRON- only say four thing ,   and the fifth -PRON- keep to -PRON- . " 
 the miller be curious and say , " let -PRON- predict something . " 
 then the little peasant press against the raven 's head , so that -PRON-   caw and say , " krr , krr . " 
 the miller say , " what do -PRON- say ? " 
 the little peasant answer , " first of all , -PRON- say that there be some   wine under the pillow . " 
 " that would be something ! " cry the miller , and go there and find   the wine . " say some more , " -PRON- say . 
 the little peasant make the raven caw again , then say , " secondly , -PRON-   say that there be a roast in the tile stove . " 
 " that would be something ! " cry the miller , and go there and find   the roast . 
 the little peasant make the raven prophesy still more , and say ,   " thirdly , -PRON- say that there be some salad on top of the bed . " 
 " that would be something ! " cry the miller , and go there and find   the salad . 
 at last the little peasant press against the raven once more until -PRON-   caw , and say , " fourthly , -PRON- say that there be a cake under the bed . " 
 " that would be something ! " cry the miller , and look there and find   the cake . then the two of -PRON- sit down at the table together . but the   miller 's wife be frightened to death and go to bed , take all the key   with -PRON- . 
 the miller would have like very much to know the fifth thing , but the   little peasant say , " first , let -PRON- eat the four thing in peace , for the   fifth thing be something bad . " 
 so -PRON- eat , after which -PRON- bargain as to how much the miller would   pay for the fifth prophesy , finally agree on three hundred taler . then   the little peasant once more press against the raven 's head until -PRON-   caw loudly . 
 the miller ask , " what do -PRON- say ? " 
 the little peasant answer , " -PRON- say that the devil be hide out   there in the hallway chest . " 
 the miller say , " the devil must leave , " and open the outside door . 
 then the woman have to give up the key , and the little peasant unlock   the chest . the priest run out as fast as -PRON- could , and the miller say , "   i see the black fellow with -PRON- own eye . -PRON- be true . " 
 the next morning at dawn the little peasant quickly make off the with   the three hundred taler . 
 at home the little peasant gradually begin to prosper . -PRON- build a nice   house , and the peasant say , " the little peasant have certainly be to   the place where golden snow fall and people carry money home by the   bushel . " 
 then the little peasant be summon before the mayor and order to   tell where -PRON- wealth come from . 
 -PRON- answer , " i sell -PRON- cow 's hide in the town for three hundred   taler . " 
 when the peasant hear this , -PRON- too want to benefit from this   favorable exchange . -PRON- run home , slaughter all -PRON- cow , and   strip off -PRON- hide in order to sell -PRON- in the town at this great   profit . 
 the mayor , however , say , " but -PRON- maid must go first . " 
 when -PRON- come to the buyer in the town , -PRON- do not give -PRON- more than   three taler for one hide , and when the other come , -PRON- do not give -PRON-   even that much , say , " what be i to do with all these hide ? " 
 then the peasant be angry that the little peasant have deceive -PRON- .   want to take revenge against -PRON- , -PRON- accuse -PRON- of fraud before the   mayor . the innocent little peasant be unanimously sentence to death , and   -PRON- be to be roll into the water in a barrel pierce with hole . -PRON- be   lead out , and a priest be bring who be to say a mass for -PRON- soul . the   other have to step back , and when the little peasant look at the priest   -PRON- recognize the man who have be with the miller 's wife . 
 -PRON- say to -PRON- , " i free -PRON- from the chest . free -PRON- from the barrel . " 
 just then a shepherd come by with a flock of sheep . -PRON- be the very   shepherd who , as the little peasant know , have long want to be mayor .   then the little peasant cry out with all -PRON- might , " no , i will not do   -PRON- ! even if the whole world insist on -PRON- , i will not do -PRON- ! " 
 hear this , the shepherd come up to -PRON- , and ask , " what be -PRON- up   to ? what be -PRON- that -PRON- will not do ? " 
 the little peasant say , " -PRON- want to make -PRON- mayor , if i will get   into the barrel , but i will not do -PRON- . " 
 the shepherd say , " if that be all that be need to be mayor , i would   get into the barrel at once . " 
 the little peasant say , " if -PRON- will get in , then -PRON- will be mayor . " 
 the shepherd agree and get in , and the little peasant nail the top   down . then -PRON- take the shepherd 's flock for -PRON- , and drive -PRON- away .   the priest go to the people and tell -PRON- that the mass have be read .   then -PRON- come and roll the barrel towards the water . as the barrel   begin to roll , the shepherd cry out , " i will gladly be mayor . " 
 -PRON- believe that -PRON- be the little peasant who be say this and   answer , " that be what -PRON- intend , but first take a look around down   there , " and -PRON- roll the barrel into the water . 
 after that the peasant go home , and as -PRON- be enter the   village , the little peasant approach -PRON- , happily drive a flock of   sheep . the astonished peasant say , " little peasant , where be -PRON- come   from ? do -PRON- come out of the water ? " 
 " yes indeed , " answer the little peasant . " i sink deep , deep down ,   until at last i reach the bottom . i push the bottom out of the barrel ,   and crawl out . there be beautiful meadow there , where many lamb be   grazing . i bring this flock with -PRON- from there . " 
 the peasant say , " be there more there ? " 
 " oh , yes , " -PRON- say . " more than -PRON- could use . " 
 then the peasant decide that -PRON- too would get some sheep for   -PRON- , a flock for each one of -PRON- , but the mayor say , " i come   first . " 
 so -PRON- go to the water together , and just then in the blue sky there   be some of the small fleecy cloud that be call little lamb . -PRON-   be reflect in the water , and the peasant cry out , " -PRON- can already   see the sheep down there on the bottom . " 
 the mayor push -PRON- way to the front , say , " i will go down first ,   and take a look around . if everything be all right , i shall call -PRON- . "   then -PRON- jump in . 
 " plop , " go the water . -PRON- think that -PRON- be call -PRON- to come ,   and the whole lot of -PRON- hastily plunge in after -PRON- . 
 then the entire village be dead , and the little peasant , as the only   heir , become a rich man . 

 little red cap 

 one day -PRON- mother say to -PRON- , " come little red cap . here be a piece of cake and a bottle of wine . take -PRON- to -PRON- grandmother . -PRON- be sick and weak , and -PRON- will do -PRON- well . mind -PRON- manner and give -PRON- -PRON- greeting . behave -PRON- on the way , and do not leave the path , or -PRON- may fall down and break the glass , and then there will be nothing for -PRON- grandmother . and when -PRON- enter -PRON- parlor , do not forget to say ' good morning , ' and do not peer into all the corner first . " 
 " i 'll do everything just right , " say little red cap , shake -PRON- mother 's hand . 
 the grandmother live out in the wood , a half hour from the village . when little red cap enter the wood a wolf come up to -PRON- . -PRON- do not know what a wicked animal -PRON- be , and be not afraid of -PRON- . 
 " good day to -PRON- , little red cap . " 
 " thank -PRON- , wolf . " 
 " where be -PRON- go so early , little red cap ? " 
 " to grandmother 's . " 
 " and what be -PRON- carry under -PRON- apron ? " 
 " grandmother be sick and weak , and i be take -PRON- some cake and wine . -PRON- bake yesterday , and -PRON- should be good for -PRON- and give -PRON- strength . " 
 " little red cap , just where do -PRON- grandmother live ? " 
 " -PRON- house be good quarter hour from here in the wood , under the three large oak tree . there be a hedge of hazel bush there . -PRON- must know the place , " say little red cap . 
 the wolf think to -PRON- , " now that sweet young thing be a tasty bite for -PRON- . -PRON- will taste even good than the old woman . -PRON- must be sly , and -PRON- can catch -PRON- both . " 
 -PRON- walk along a little while with little red cap , then -PRON- say , " little red cap , just look at the beautiful flower that be all around -PRON- . why do not -PRON- go and take a look ? and i do not believe -PRON- can hear how beautifully the bird be sing . -PRON- be walk along as though -PRON- be on -PRON- way to school . -PRON- be very beautiful in the wood . " 
 little red cap open -PRON- eye and when -PRON- see the sunbeam dance to and fro through the tree and how the ground be covered with beautiful flower , -PRON- think , " if a take a fresh bouquet to grandmother , -PRON- will be very pleased . anyway , -PRON- be still early , and -PRON- will be home on time . " and -PRON- run off the path into the wood look for flower . each time -PRON- pick one -PRON- think that -PRON- could see an even more beautiful one a little way off , and -PRON- run after -PRON- , go further and further into the wood . but the wolf run straight to the grandmother 's house and knock on the door . 
 " who be there ? " 
 " little red cap . -PRON- be bring -PRON- some cake and wine . open the door . " 
 " just press the latch , " call out the grandmother . " i 'm too weak to get up . " 
 the wolf press the latch , and the door open . -PRON- step inside , go straight to the grandmother 's bed , and eat -PRON- up . then -PRON- put on -PRON- clothe , put -PRON- cap on -PRON- head , get into -PRON- bed , and pull the curtain shut . 
 little red cap have run after the flower . after -PRON- have gather so many that -PRON- could not carry any more , -PRON- remember -PRON- grandmother , and then continue on -PRON- way to -PRON- house . -PRON- find , to -PRON- surprise , that the door be open . -PRON- walk into the parlor , and everything look so strange that -PRON- think , " oh , my god , why be i so afraid ? i usually like -PRON- at grandmother 's . " 
 -PRON- call out , " good morning ! " but receive no answer . 
 then -PRON- go to the bed and pull back the curtain . grandmother be lie there with -PRON- cap pull down over -PRON- face and look very strange . 
 " oh , grandmother , what big ear -PRON- have ! " 
 " all the good to hear -PRON- with . " 
 " oh , grandmother , what big eye -PRON- have ! " 
 " all the good to see -PRON- with . " 
 " oh , grandmother , what big hand -PRON- have ! " 
 " all the good to grab -PRON- with ! " 
 " oh , grandmother , what a horribly big mouth -PRON- have ! " 
 " all the good to eat -PRON- with ! " 
 the wolf have scarcely finish speak when -PRON- jump from the bed with a single leap and eat up poor little red cap . as soon as the wolf have satisfied -PRON- desire , -PRON- climb back into bed , fall asleep , and begin to snore very loudly . 
 a huntsman be just pass by . -PRON- think , " the old woman be snore so loudly . -PRON- have good see if something be wrong with -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- step into the parlor , and when -PRON- approach the bed , -PRON- see the wolf lie there . " so here i find -PRON- , -PRON- old sinner , " -PRON- say . " i have be hunt for -PRON- a long time . " 
 -PRON- be about to aim -PRON- rifle when -PRON- occur to -PRON- that the wolf may have eat the grandmother , and that -PRON- still may be rescue . so instead of shoot , -PRON- take a pair of scissor and begin to cut open the wolf 's belly . after a few cut -PRON- see the red cap shin through . , and after a few more cut the girl jump out , cry , " oh , i be so frightened ! -PRON- be so dark inside the wolf 's body ! " 
 and then the grandmother come out as well , alive but hardly able to breathe . then little red cap fetch some large stone . -PRON- fill the wolf 's body with -PRON- , and when -PRON- wake up and try to run away , the stone be so heavy that -PRON- immediately fall down dead . 
 the three of -PRON- be happy . the huntsman skin the wolf and go home with the pelt . the grandmother eat the cake and drank the wine that little red cap have bring . and little red cap thought , " as long as i live , i will never leave the path and run off into the wood by -PRON- if mother tell -PRON- not to . " 
 -PRON- also tell how little red cap be take some baked thing to -PRON- grandmother another time , when another wolf speak to -PRON- and want -PRON- to leave the path . but little red cap take care and go straight to grandmother 's . -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- have see the wolf , and that -PRON- have wish -PRON- a good day , but have star at -PRON- in a wicked manner . " if -PRON- have not be on a public road , -PRON- would have eat -PRON- up , " -PRON- say . 
 " come , " say the grandmother . " let 's lock the door , so -PRON- can not get in . " 
 soon afterward the wolf knock on the door and call out , " open up , grandmother . -PRON- be little red cap , and -PRON- be bring -PRON- some baked thing . " 
 -PRON- remain silent , and do not open the door . gray - head creep around the house several time , and finally jump onto the roof . -PRON- want to wait until little red cap go home that evening , then follow -PRON- and eat -PRON- up in the darkness . but the grandmother see what -PRON- be up to . there be a large stone trough in front of the house . 

 the three feather 

 so there would be no dispute among -PRON- , -PRON- lead -PRON- to the front of -PRON-   castle , blow three feather into the air , and say , " as -PRON- fly , so shall   -PRON- go . " 
 the one feather fly to the east , the other to the west , and the third   feather fly straight ahead , fall quickly to the ground after go   only a short distance . the one brother go to the right , the other to the   leave , and -PRON- laugh at the simpleton who have to stand there where the   third feather have fall . 
 the simpleton sit down and be sad . then -PRON- suddenly notice that there   be a trapdoor next to -PRON- feather . -PRON- lift -PRON- up , find a stairway , and   climb down inside . -PRON- come to another door and knock on -PRON- , upon which   -PRON- hear someone call out from within : 
 the door open , and -PRON- see a big , fat toad sit there , surround by a   large number of little toad . the fat toad ask what -PRON- want . 
 the simpleton answer , " i would like the most beautiful and fine   carpet . " 
 then the fat toad call to a young toad , say : 
 the young toad bring the box , and the fat toad open -PRON- , then give the   simpleton a carpet from -PRON- . -PRON- be so beautiful and so fine , the like of   which could never have be weave in the world above . -PRON- thank the toad   and climb back out . 
 now the other two think that -PRON- brother be so stupid that -PRON- would   not find anything to bring home . 
 " why should -PRON- spend a lot of effort look for a carpet ? " -PRON- say , so   -PRON- take some piece of course cloth from the first shepherd 's wife -PRON-   come to , and take these back home to the king . 
 at the same time -PRON- return home , the simpleton arrive , bring -PRON-   beautiful carpet . when the king see -PRON- , -PRON- be astounded , and say , " -PRON- be   only right that the kingdom should go to -PRON- young son . " 
 however , the two other son give -PRON- father no peace , say that -PRON-   would be impossible for the simpleton to become king , because -PRON- lack   understanding in all thing . -PRON- ask -PRON- to declare another contest . 
 then the father say , " -PRON- who bring -PRON- the most beautiful ring shall   inherit the kingdom . " lead the three brother outside , -PRON- blow the   three feather into the air that -PRON- be to follow . 
 the two old brother again go to the east and to the west , and the   simpleton 's feather again fly straight ahead , fall down next to the   door in the ground . once again -PRON- climb down to the fat toad and tell -PRON-   that -PRON- need the most beautiful ring . the toad have the box bring out   again and give -PRON- from -PRON- a ring that glisten with precious stone and   be so beautiful that no goldsmith on earth could have make -PRON- . 
 the two old brother laugh at the simpleton , who be go to look   for a golden ring , and -PRON- take no effort at all . instead , -PRON- drive the   nail out of an old wagon ring and bring -PRON- to the king . however , when   the simpleton present -PRON- ring , the king say once again , " the kingdom   belong to -PRON- . " 
 the two old son torment the king endlessly , until finally -PRON-   declare a third contest , say that -PRON- who would bring home the most   beautiful woman should have the kingdom . 
 once again -PRON- blow the three feather into the air and -PRON- fly in the   same direction as before . 
 without hesitate , the simpleton go back to the fat toad and say , " i   be suppose to take home the most beautiful woman . " 
 " oh ! " answer the toad . " the most beautiful woman ! -PRON- be not here at the   moment , but -PRON- shall have -PRON- nonetheless . " 
 the fat toad give -PRON- a hollow out yellow turnip , to which be   harness six little mouse . 
 the simpleton say sadly , " what be i to do with this ? " 
 the toad answer , " just put one of -PRON- little toad inside -PRON- . " 
 the -PRON- grab one of -PRON- from the group and set -PRON- inside the yellow   coach . the little toad be scarcely inside when -PRON- turn into a beautiful   young lady , the turnip into a coach , and the six mouse into horse . -PRON-   kiss -PRON- , race away with the horse , and bring -PRON- to the king . 
 -PRON- brother come along afterward . -PRON- have give no effort to find a   beautiful woman , but simply bring along the first peasant woman -PRON- have   come upon . 
 after look at -PRON- , the king say , " after -PRON- death the kingdom belong   to -PRON- young son . " 
 however , the two old son again deafen the king 's ear with the cry ,   " -PRON- can not allow the simpleton to become king , " and -PRON- demand that the   preference should go to the brother whose woman could jump through a hoop   that be hang in the middle of the hall . 
 -PRON- think , " the peasant woman will be able to do that very well . -PRON-   be very strong , but the dainty lady will jump -PRON- to death . " 
 the old king give in to this as well . the two peasant woman do indeed   jump through the hoop , but -PRON- be so plump that each one fall , break   -PRON- thick arm and leg . then the beautiful lady , that the simpleton have   bring home , jump , and -PRON- jump through the hoop as lightly as a   deer . 
 after this all the protest have to stop . thus the simpleton receive the   crown , and -PRON- rule wisely for a long time . 


 fitcher 's bird 

 everything be splendid in the house , and -PRON- give -PRON- everything that -PRON-   want . -PRON- say , " -PRON- dear , -PRON- will like -PRON- here with -PRON- . -PRON- will have   everything that -PRON- heart desire . " 
 so -PRON- go for a few day , and then -PRON- say to -PRON- , " i have to go away and   leave -PRON- alone for a short time . here be the house key . -PRON- may go   everywhere and look at everything except for the one room that this little   key here unlock . i forbid -PRON- to go there on the penalty of death . " 
 -PRON- also give -PRON- an egg , say , " take good care of this egg . -PRON- should   carry -PRON- with -PRON- at all time , for if -PRON- should loose -PRON- great   misfortune would follow . " 
 -PRON- take the key and the egg , and promise to take good care of   everything . 
 as soon as -PRON- have go -PRON- walk about in the house from top to bottom   examine everything . the room glisten with silver and gold , and -PRON-   think that -PRON- have never see such splendor . 
 finally -PRON- come to the forbid door . -PRON- want to pass -PRON- by , but   curiosity give -PRON- no rest . -PRON- examine the key . -PRON- look like any other   one . -PRON- put -PRON- into the lock and twist -PRON- a little , and then the door   spring open . 
 what do -PRON- see when -PRON- step inside ? a large bloody basin stand in   the middle , inside which there lie the cut up part of dead girl . nearby   there be a wooden block with a glisten ax lie on -PRON- . 
 -PRON- be so terrified that the egg , which -PRON- be hold in -PRON- hand , fall   into the basin . -PRON- get -PRON- out again and wipe off the blood , but -PRON- be   to no avail , for -PRON- always come back . -PRON- wipe and scrub , but -PRON-   could not get rid of the stain . 
 not long afterward the man return from -PRON- journey , and -PRON- immediately   ask for the key and the egg . -PRON- hand -PRON- to -PRON- , shake all the   while , for -PRON- see from the red stain that -PRON- have be in the blood   chamber . 
 " -PRON- go into that chamber against -PRON- will , " -PRON- say , " and now against   -PRON- will -PRON- shall go into -PRON- once again . -PRON- life be finish . " 
 -PRON- throw -PRON- down , drag -PRON- by -PRON- hair into the chamber , cut off -PRON-   head on the block , then cut -PRON- up into piece , and -PRON- blood flow out   onto the floor . then -PRON- throw -PRON- into the basin with the other . 
 " now i will go get the second one , " say the sorcerer , and , again   disguise as a poor man , -PRON- go to -PRON- house begging . 
 the second sister bring -PRON- a piece of bread , and , as -PRON- have do to the   first one , -PRON- capture -PRON- by merely touch -PRON- , and -PRON- carry -PRON-   away . -PRON- go with -PRON- no better than -PRON- have go with -PRON- sister . -PRON- let   -PRON- be lead astray by -PRON- curiosity , open the blood chamber and   look inside . when -PRON- return -PRON- pay with -PRON- life . 
 then -PRON- go and capture the third sister , but -PRON- be clever and sly .   after -PRON- have give -PRON- the key and the egg , and have go away , -PRON-   carefully put the egg aside , and then examine the house , enter finally   the forbid chamber . 
 oh , what -PRON- see ! -PRON- two dear sister be lie there in the basin ,   miserably murder and chop to piece . in spite of this -PRON- proceed   to gather -PRON- part together , place -PRON- back in order : head , body ,   arm , and leg . then , when nothing else be missing , the part begin to   move . -PRON- join together , and the two girl open -PRON- eye and come   back to life . rejoice , -PRON- kiss and hug one another . 
 when the man return home -PRON- immediately demand the key and the egg ,   and when -PRON- be unable to detect any trace of blood on -PRON- , -PRON- say , " -PRON-   have pass the test . -PRON- shall be -PRON- bride . " 
 -PRON- now have no more power over -PRON- and have to do whatev -PRON- demand . 
 " good , " -PRON- answer , " but first -PRON- must take a basketful of gold to -PRON-   father and mother . -PRON- -PRON- must carry -PRON- there on -PRON- back . in the   meanwhile i shall make preparation for the wedding . " 
 then -PRON- run to -PRON- sister , whom -PRON- have hide in a closet , and say ,   " the moment be here when i can rescue -PRON- . the evildoer -PRON- shall   carry -PRON- home . as soon as -PRON- have arrive at home send help to -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- put -PRON- both into a basket , then cover -PRON- entirely with gold , so   that nothing could be see of -PRON- . 
 then -PRON- call the sorcerer in and say , " now carry this basket away , but   -PRON- be not to stop and rest underway . take care , for i shall be watch   -PRON- through -PRON- little window . " 
 the sorcerer lift the basket onto -PRON- back and walk away with -PRON- .   however , -PRON- press down so heavily on -PRON- that the sweat run from -PRON-   face . -PRON- sit down , want to rest , but immediately one of the girl in   the basket call out , " i be look through -PRON- little window , and i can   see that -PRON- be rest . walk on ! " 
 -PRON- think that -PRON- bride be call to -PRON- , so -PRON- get up again . then -PRON-   again want to sit down , but someone immediately call out , " i be   look through -PRON- little window , and i can see that -PRON- be rest . walk   on ! " 
 every time that -PRON- stop walk , someone call out , and -PRON- have to walk   on until , groaning and out of breath , -PRON- bring the basket with the gold   and the two girl to -PRON- parent ' house . 
 at home the bride be make preparation for the wedding feast , to which   -PRON- have have the sorcerer 's friend invite . then -PRON- take a skull with   grin tooth , adorn -PRON- with jewelry and with a wreath of flower ,   carry -PRON- to the attic window , and let -PRON- look out . 
 when everything be ready -PRON- dip -PRON- into a barrel of honey , then   cut open the bed and roll around in -PRON- until -PRON- look like a strange   bird , and no one would have be able to recognize -PRON- . then -PRON- walk   out of the house . 
 underway some of the wedding guest meet -PRON- , and -PRON- ask , " -PRON- ,   fitcher 's bird , where be -PRON- come from ? " 
 " i be come from fitcher 's house . " 
 " what be -PRON- young bride do there ? " 
 " -PRON- have sweep the house from bottom to top , and now -PRON- be look out of   the attic window . " 
 finally -PRON- bridegroom meet -PRON- . -PRON- be slowly walk back home , and , like   the other , -PRON- ask , " -PRON- , fitcher 's bird , where be -PRON- come from ? " 
 " i be come from fitcher 's house . " 
 " what be -PRON- young bride do there ? " 
 " -PRON- have sweep the house from bottom to top , and now -PRON- be look out of   the attic window . " 
 the bridegroom look up . see the decorate skull , -PRON- think -PRON- be   -PRON- bride , and -PRON- wave a friendly greeting to -PRON- . 
 after -PRON- and all -PRON- guest have go into the house , the bride 's brother   and relative arrive . -PRON- have be send to rescue -PRON- . after close up   all the door of the house so that no one could escape , -PRON- set -PRON- afire ,   and the sorcerer , together with -PRON- gang , all burn to death . 

 all - kind - of - fur 

 -PRON- happen that -PRON- fall ill , and when -PRON- feel that -PRON- be about to die , -PRON- call the king to -PRON- and say , " if -PRON- want to remarry after -PRON- death then do not take anyone who be not as beautiful as i be , and who do not have such golden hair as mine . that -PRON- must promise -PRON- . " 
 after the king have promise -PRON- this , -PRON- close -PRON- eye and die . 
 for a long time the king could not be comfort , and -PRON- do not consider take a second wife . finally -PRON- councilor say , " there be no other way . the king must remarry , so that -PRON- will have a queen . " 
 then messenger be send out far and wide to seek a bride , who in beauty be entirely the equal of the deceased queen . however , no such bride could be find in the whole world . and even if a bride this beautiful have be find , -PRON- would not have have such golden hair . thus the messenger return home without success . 
 now the king have a daughter who be just as beautiful as -PRON- deceased mother , and who also have such golden hair . after -PRON- have come of age , the king look at -PRON- one day that -PRON- resemble -PRON- deceased wife in every way , and -PRON- suddenly feel a great love for -PRON- . 
 then -PRON- say to -PRON- councilor , " i will marry -PRON- daughter , for -PRON- be the image of -PRON- deceased wife , and nowhere else can i find a bride who be -PRON- equal . " 
 when the councilor hear this -PRON- be horrified and say , " god have forbid that a father should marry -PRON- daughter . nothing good can come from sin , and the kingdom will be pull along into ruin . " 
 the daughter be even more horrified when -PRON- hear -PRON- father 's decision . hop to dissuade -PRON- from -PRON- intention , -PRON- say to -PRON- , " before i fulfill -PRON- wish , i must have three dress : one as golden as the sun , one as silver as the moon , and one that glisten like the star . further , i must have a cloak put together from a thousand kind of pelt and fur . every animal in -PRON- kingdom must contribute a piece of -PRON- skin for -PRON- . " 
 now -PRON- think , " that will be entirely impossible for -PRON- to achieve , and in this way i will divert -PRON- father from -PRON- wicked thought . " 
 but the king do not give in , and the most skilled maiden in -PRON- kingdom have to weave the three dress , one as golden as the sun , one as silver as the moon , and one that glisten like the star . and -PRON- huntsman have to capture all the animal in -PRON- entire kingdom and take a piece of skin from each one . from these a cloak of a thousand kind of fur be make . 
 finally , when everything be finish , the king have the cloak bring to -PRON- . spread -PRON- out , -PRON- say , " tomorrow be -PRON- wedding day . " 
 when the king 's daughter see that there be no more hope to change -PRON- father 's mind , -PRON- make the decision to run away . during the night , while everyone be asleep , -PRON- get up and take three thing from among -PRON- valuable : a golden ring , a little golden spinning wheel , and a little golden reel . -PRON- put the three dress from the sun , moon , and star into a nutshell , put on the cloak of all kind of fur , blacken -PRON- hand and face with soot . then surrender -PRON- to god , -PRON- set forth . -PRON- walk the entire night until -PRON- come to a great forest . be tired , -PRON- sit down in a hollow tree and fall asleep . 
 the sun come up , and -PRON- continue to sleep , and -PRON- be still asleep by broad daylight . now -PRON- come to pass that the king who own these wood be hunt in -PRON- . when -PRON- dog approach the tree -PRON- sniff then run around -PRON- bark . 
 the king say to the huntsman . " see what kind of wild animal be hide there . " 
 the huntsman follow -PRON- command , and when -PRON- return -PRON- say , " a strange animal , like none -PRON- have ever see before , be lie in the hollow tree . there be a thousand kind of fur on -PRON- skin . -PRON- be just lie there asleep . " 
 the king say , " see if -PRON- can capture -PRON- alive , then tie -PRON- onto the cart and bring -PRON- along . " 
 when the huntsman take hold of the girl , -PRON- awake . fill with fear , -PRON- cry out , " i be a poor child who have be abandon by -PRON- father and mother . have pity on -PRON- and take -PRON- with -PRON- . " 
 then -PRON- say , " all - kind - of - fur , -PRON- be good for the kitchen . come with -PRON- . -PRON- can sweep up the ash . " 
 thus -PRON- set -PRON- on the cart and drive -PRON- home to the royal castle . there -PRON- show -PRON- a little cubbyhole under the stair , where the light of day never enter , and say , " this be where -PRON- can live and sleep , -PRON- furry little animal . " 
 then -PRON- be send to the kitchen , where -PRON- carry wood and water , tend the fire , pluck the poultry , sort vegetable , sweep up the ash , and do all the dirty work . 
 all - kind - of - fur live there miserable for a long time . oh , -PRON- beautiful princess , what will become of -PRON- ? 
 now one day -PRON- happen that a banquet be be hold in the castle , and -PRON- say to the cook , " may i go up for a little while and take a look ? i will stand outside the door . " 
 the cook answer , " yes , go ahead . but -PRON- have to be back here in a half hour and carry out the ash . " 
 then -PRON- take -PRON- oil lamp and go into -PRON- cubbyhole . take off -PRON- fur cloak , -PRON- wash the soot from -PRON- hand and face so that -PRON- full beauty again come to light . then -PRON- open the nut and take out -PRON- dress that glisten like the sun . and after -PRON- have do all this -PRON- go upstairs to the banquet . everyone step out of -PRON- way , for no one know -PRON- , and everyone think that -PRON- be a princess . 
 the king approach -PRON- , reach -PRON- hand out to -PRON- , and dance with -PRON- , and think in -PRON- heart , " -PRON- eye have never before see such beauty . " 
 when the dance have end , -PRON- curtsy , and while the king be look around , -PRON- disappear , and no one know where -PRON- have go . the guard who stand watch in front of the castle be call and question , but no one have see -PRON- . 
 now -PRON- have run back to -PRON- cubbyhole , quickly take off -PRON- dress , blacken -PRON- hand and face , put on the fur cloak , and be once again all - kind - of - fur . 
 after -PRON- have return to the kitchen and be about to set to work and sweep up the ash , the cook say , " that be enough until tomorrow . make the king 's soup for -PRON- , so i can have a look upstairs , but do not let a hair fall into -PRON- , or in the future there will nothing more for -PRON- to eat . " 
 then the cook go away , and all - kind - of - fur make soup for the king . -PRON- make bread soup , and as good as -PRON- know how . when -PRON- be do , -PRON- get -PRON- golden ring from the cubbyhole and place -PRON- in the bowl that the soup be in . 
 when the dance be over , the king have -PRON- soup bring to -PRON- . -PRON- eat -PRON- , and -PRON- taste so good to -PRON- , that -PRON- think -PRON- have never eat a good soup . but when -PRON- reach the bottom of the bowl , -PRON- see a golden ring lie there , and -PRON- could not imagine how -PRON- have get there . 
 -PRON- order the cook to come before -PRON- . the cook be terrify when -PRON- hear this order , and -PRON- say to all - kind - of - fur , " for sure -PRON- let a hair fall into the soup . if that be true , -PRON- will get a beating . " 
 when the cook come before the king -PRON- be ask who have cook the soup , and -PRON- answer , " i cook -PRON- . " 
 the king say , " that be not true , for -PRON- be make in a different way , and much good than usual . " 
 the cook answer , " i must confess that i do not cook -PRON- , -PRON- be the little furry animal . " 
 the king say , " go and have -PRON- come up here . " 
 when all - kind - of - fur arrive , the king ask , " who be -PRON- . " 
 " i be a poor child who no longer have a father or a mother . " 
 -PRON- ask further , " what be -PRON- do in -PRON- castle ? " 
 -PRON- answer , " i be good for nothing , except have boot throw at -PRON- head . " 
 -PRON- ask further , " where do -PRON- get the ring that be in the soup ? " 
 -PRON- answer , " i do not know anything about the ring . " 
 thus the king could learn nothing , and -PRON- have to send -PRON- away again . 
 some time later there be another banquet , and all - kind - of - fur , as before , ask the cook for permission to have a look . -PRON- answer , " yes , but come back in a half hour and cook the bread soup for the king that -PRON- like so much . " 
 -PRON- run to -PRON- cubbyhole , quickly wash -PRON- then take from the nut the dress that be as silver as the moon and put -PRON- on . then -PRON- go upstairs and look like a princess . the king come up to -PRON- and be delighted to see -PRON- again , and because a dance be just begin , -PRON- dance together . but as soon as the dance be over -PRON- again disappear so quickly that the king do not notice where -PRON- go . 
 -PRON- run to -PRON- cubbyhole , turn -PRON- back into a furry animal , and go to the kitchen to make the bread soup . while the cook be upstairs -PRON- get the golden spinning wheel and put -PRON- in the bowl , so that the soup be prepare on top of -PRON- . then -PRON- be take to the king , who eat -PRON- , and -PRON- taste as good to -PRON- as the last time . -PRON- have the cook bring before -PRON- , who again have to confess that all - kind - of - fur have make the soup . all - kind - of - fur again come before the king , and -PRON- answer that -PRON- be only good for have boot throw at -PRON- head , and that -PRON- know nothing at all about the little golden spinning wheel . 
 when the king give a banquet for the third time , everything happen as before . but this time the cook say , " -PRON- be a witch , -PRON- furry animal , always put something in the soup that make -PRON- very good and taste good to the king . " but because -PRON- ask , -PRON- allow -PRON- to look in on the ball at the appoint time . 
 this time -PRON- put on the dress that glisten like the star , and thus clothe -PRON- step into the hall . the king dance again with the beautiful maiden , think that -PRON- have never be so beautiful . and while -PRON- be dance -PRON- place a golden ring on -PRON- finger , without -PRON- notice -PRON- . further , -PRON- have order that this dance should last a long time . when -PRON- be over , -PRON- try to keep hold of -PRON- by -PRON- hand , but -PRON- tear -PRON- loose and jump so quickly into the crowd that -PRON- disappear before -PRON- eye . -PRON- run as fast as -PRON- could to -PRON- cubbyhole beneath the step , but because -PRON- have stay away too long , more than a half hour , -PRON- could not take off the beautiful dress , but instead just throw the fur cloak on over -PRON- . and in -PRON- haste -PRON- do not cover -PRON- entirely with soot , and one finger remain white . 
 all - kind - of - fur now run into the kitchen , make the bread soup for the king , and while the cook be away , put the golden reel in -PRON- . 
 when the king find the reel at the bottom of -PRON- bowl have all - kind - of - fur call before -PRON- . catch sight of the white finger , -PRON- see the ring that -PRON- have put on -PRON- while -PRON- be dance . -PRON- seize -PRON- by the hand and hold -PRON- fast . as -PRON- attempt to free -PRON- and run away , -PRON- fur cloak open a little , and the dress of star glisten out . the king grab the cloak and tear -PRON- off . -PRON- golden hair appear , and -PRON- stand there in full splendor , no longer able to hide . and after -PRON- have wipe the soot and ash from -PRON- face , -PRON- be more beautiful than anyone who have ever be see on earth . 
 the king say , " -PRON- be -PRON- dear bride , and -PRON- shall never part . " 
 then -PRON- wedding be celebrate , and -PRON- live happily until -PRON- die . 

 the hare 's bride 

 the girl say to the hare , " shoo , shoo , hare ! -PRON- be eat all -PRON- cabbage . " 
 the hare say , " come , girl , sit on -PRON- tail , and come with -PRON- to -PRON- hut . " 
 the girl would not do that . 
 the next day the hare come again and eat cabbage , so the woman say to -PRON- daughter , " go to the garden , and chase the hare away . " 
 the girl say to the hare , " shoo , shoo , hare ! -PRON- be eat all -PRON- cabbage . " 
 the hare say , " come , girl , sit on -PRON- tail , and come with -PRON- to -PRON- hut . " 
 the girl would not do that . 
 on the third day the hare come again and eat cabbage , so the woman say to -PRON- daughter , " go to the garden and chase the hare away . " 
 the girl say , " shoo , shoo , hare ! -PRON- be eat all -PRON- cabbage . " 
 the hare say , " come , girl , sit on -PRON- tail , and come with -PRON- to -PRON- hut . " 
 so the girl sit on the hare 's tail , and the hare take -PRON- far away to -PRON- little hut , and then say , " now cook some green cabbage and millet . " i 'm go out to invite guest to -PRON- wedding . " 
 then all the wedding guest arrive .   who be the wedding guest ? i can tell -PRON- , because someone else tell -PRON- .   -PRON- be all hare , and the crow be there as parson to marry the bride and bridegroom , and the fox serve as sexton , and -PRON- altar be under the rainbow . 
 but the girl be sad , for -PRON- be all alone . 
 the hare come up to -PRON- and say , " open the door ! open the door ! the wedding guest be make merry . " 
 the bride cry and say nothing .   the hare go away .   then the hare come back and say , " open the door ! open the door ! the wedding guest be hungry . " 
 the bride continue to cry , and say nothing .   the hare go away . then -PRON- come back and say , " open the door ! open the door ! the wedding guest be wait . " 
 the bride say nothing , and the hare go away . then -PRON- dress a straw doll in -PRON- clothe , give -PRON- a stirring - spoon , and stand -PRON- next to the millet pot . then -PRON- go back to -PRON- mother . 
 the hare come once more and say , " open the door ! open the door ! "   then -PRON- open the door -PRON- and strike the doll on the head so that -PRON- cap fall off . then the hare see that this be not -PRON- bride , and -PRON- sadly go away . 

 the twelve huntsman 

 then -PRON- say to -PRON- beloved , " i must now go and leave -PRON- . i give -PRON- a   ring to remember -PRON- by . as soon as i be king , i will return and take -PRON-   home with -PRON- . " 
 then -PRON- ride away , and when -PRON- reach -PRON- father , the latter be   mortally ill and near death . 
 the king say to -PRON- , " -PRON- dear son , i want to see -PRON- one more   time before -PRON- end . promise -PRON- to marry the woman of -PRON- choice , " and -PRON-   name a certain princess who be to become -PRON- wife . 
 the son be so grieve that without think -PRON- say , " yes , dear   father , -PRON- will shall be do . " 
 then the king close -PRON- eye and die . 
 after the son have be proclaim king , and the period of mourning have   pass , -PRON- have to keep the promise that -PRON- have give -PRON- father . -PRON-   propose marriage to the princess , and -PRON- be promise to -PRON- . 
 -PRON- first fiance hear about this , and be so sadden by -PRON-   faithlessness that -PRON- nearly die . 
 then -PRON- father say to -PRON- , " dear child , why be -PRON- so sad ? -PRON-   shall have whatev -PRON- want . " 
 -PRON- think for a moment and then say , " dear father , i want eleven   girl exactly like -PRON- in appearance , figure , and size . " 
 the father say , " if -PRON- be possible , -PRON- wish shall be fulfil , " and   -PRON- have -PRON- entire kingdom search until eleven girl be find who be   exactly like -PRON- daughter in appearance , figure , and size . 
 when -PRON- come to the princess , -PRON- have twelve huntsman 's outfit make ,   each one like the other . the eleven girl put on the huntsman 's outfit ,   and -PRON- -PRON- put on the twelfth outfit . 
 after this -PRON- take leave of -PRON- father , and ride away with -PRON- . -PRON-   ride to the court of -PRON- former fianc , whom -PRON- love so dearly .   there -PRON- ask if -PRON- need any huntsman , and if -PRON- would take all of   -PRON- into -PRON- service . the king look at -PRON- without recognize -PRON- .   because -PRON- be such good - look fellow , -PRON- say , yes , that -PRON- would   willingly take -PRON- , and then -PRON- be the king 's twelve huntsman . 
 now the king have a lion that be a miraculous animal , for -PRON- know all   hidden and secret thing . -PRON- happen that one evening the lion say to   the king , " -PRON- think that -PRON- have twelve huntsman . " 
 " yes , " say the king , " -PRON- be twelve huntsman . " 
 the lion continue , " -PRON- be mistaken . -PRON- be twelve girl . " 
 the king say , " that be absolutely not true . how can -PRON- prove that to   -PRON- ? " 
 " oh , just have some pea scatter in -PRON- antechamber , " answer the   lion , " and then -PRON- shall soon see . man have a firm step , and when -PRON-   walk over the pea , none of -PRON- will be move . on the other hand , girl   trip and skip and shuffle -PRON- foot , roll the pea about . " 
 the king like this advise and have pea scatter on the floor . 
 now one of the king 's servant like the huntsman , and when -PRON- hear   that -PRON- be go to be put to this test , -PRON- go to -PRON- and tell -PRON-   everything , say , " the lion want to make the king believe that -PRON- be   girl . " 
 the princess thank -PRON- , then say to -PRON- girl , " be strong , and step   firmly on the pea . " 
 the next morning the king have the twelve huntsman call before -PRON- .   when -PRON- come into the antechamber where the pea be lie , -PRON-   step so firmly on -PRON- , and have such a strong , sure walk , that not one   of the pea roll or move . 
 after -PRON- have go , the king say to the lion , " -PRON- lie to -PRON- . -PRON-   walk just like man . " 
 the lion say , " -PRON- know that be go to be put to a test , and   act like -PRON- be strong . just have twelve spin wheel bring into   the antechamber . -PRON- will go up to -PRON- and admire -PRON- . no man would do   that . " 
 the king like this advice , and -PRON- have the spinning wheel set up in   the antechamber . 
 but the servant who be honest with the huntsman go to -PRON- and tell   -PRON- about the proposal . 
 so when -PRON- be alone , the princess say to -PRON- eleven girl , " be   strong and do not look around at the spinning wheel . " 
 the next morning when the king have -PRON- twelve huntsman summon , -PRON-   walk through the antechamber without look at the spinning wheel at   all . 
 then the king again say to the lion , " -PRON- lie to -PRON- . -PRON- be man ,   for -PRON- do not look at the spinning wheel . " 
 the lion answer , " -PRON- know that -PRON- be go to be put to a test ,   and act like -PRON- be strong . " 
 the king , however , refuse to believe the lion anymore . 
 the twelve huntsman always accompany the king hunting , and the longer   -PRON- know -PRON- , the good -PRON- like -PRON- . now -PRON- happen that once when   -PRON- be out hunt , news come that the king 's bride be approach .   when the true bride hear this , -PRON- hurt -PRON- so much that -PRON- almost break   -PRON- heart , and -PRON- faint and fall to the ground . 
 think that something have happen to -PRON- dear huntsman , the king run   up to -PRON- in order to help -PRON- . pull the huntsman 's glove off , -PRON- see   the ring that -PRON- have give to -PRON- first fiance , and when -PRON- look   into -PRON- face , -PRON- recognize -PRON- . then -PRON- heart be so touch that -PRON-   kiss -PRON- , and when -PRON- open -PRON- eye -PRON- say , " -PRON- be -PRON- , and i be   your , and no one in the world can change that . " 
 -PRON- send a messenger to the other bride , and ask -PRON- to return to -PRON-   own kingdom , for , as -PRON- inform -PRON- , -PRON- already have a wife , and someone   who have find an old key do not need a new one . 
 after this -PRON- wedding be celebrate , and the lion be accept back   into favor , because , after all , -PRON- have tell the truth . 

 the good bargain 

 " well , " -PRON- say -PRON- to -PRON- , " -PRON- be talk nonsense . -PRON- be seven   that i be pay , not eight . " 
 when -PRON- reach the water , -PRON- shout to -PRON- , " -PRON- be stupid   creature . do not -PRON- know any good than that ? -PRON- be seven taler , not   eight . " 
 the frog , however , keep up with -PRON- " ak , ak , ak , ak . " 
 " now then , if -PRON- will not believe -PRON- , i can count -PRON- out for -PRON- . " then   take -PRON- money out of -PRON- pocket , -PRON- count out the seven taler ,   twenty - four groschen in each one . 
 however , the frog pay no attention to -PRON- counting , and again cry   out , " ak , ak , ak , ak . " 
 " aha ! " shout the peasant , quite angry . " if -PRON- think that -PRON- know   good than i do , then count -PRON- yourself , " and -PRON- throw all the money at   -PRON- into the water . -PRON- stand still , want to stay there until -PRON- be   finish and have return -PRON- money to -PRON- , but the frog do not budge   from -PRON- opinion , and continue to cry out , " ak , ak , ak , ak . " and   furthermore , -PRON- do not throw the money back to -PRON- . 
 -PRON- wait a long time , until evening finally come , and -PRON- have to go   home . then -PRON- curse the frog , shout at -PRON- , " -PRON- water - splasher ,   -PRON- thick - head , -PRON- goggle - eye , -PRON- have big mouth and can shout until   a person 's ear hurt , but -PRON- can not count seven taler . do -PRON- think that   i want to stand here until -PRON- be finish ? " 
 then -PRON- walk away , with the frog still cry out after -PRON- , " ak ,   ak , ak , ak . " -PRON- arrive at home in a sour mood . 
 some time later -PRON- buy -PRON- another cow , which -PRON- slaughter . -PRON-   calculate that if -PRON- sell the meat for a good price , -PRON- could earn as   much as the two cow have be worth together , and have the hide as well . 
 -PRON- go to town with the meat . an entire pack of dog have gather   together just outside the town gate , with a large greyhound at the head of   the pack . the greyhound jump at the meat , sniff and bark , " bow ,   wow , bow , wow . " 
 when the dog would not stop , the peasant say to -PRON- , " yes , i   understand that -PRON- be say , " bow , wow , " because -PRON- want some of the   meat , but i would be in a fine state if i give -PRON- to -PRON- . " 
 the dog 's only answer be , " bow , wow . " 
 " will -PRON- not eat -PRON- all up , and will -PRON- be responsible for -PRON-   companion ? " 
 " bow , wow , " say the dog . 
 " well , if -PRON- insist on -PRON- , i will leave -PRON- with -PRON- . i know -PRON- well ,   and i know who -PRON- master be . but i be tell -PRON- , i must have -PRON- money   in three day , or -PRON- will be sorry . -PRON- can just bring -PRON- out to -PRON- . " 
 with this -PRON- unload the meat and turn back toward home . the dog   jump on the meat , bark loudly , " bow , wow . " 
 the peasant hear -PRON- from afar and say to -PRON- , " listen , -PRON- all   want some , but the big dog will be responsible for -PRON- . " 
 when three day have pass , the peasant think , " tonight -PRON- will have   the money in -PRON- pocket , " and be quite satisfied . but no one come to pay   -PRON- . 
 " no one be to be trust nowadays , " -PRON- say . 
 finally -PRON- lose -PRON- patience and go to town and to the butcher , from   whom -PRON- demand -PRON- money . the butcher think -PRON- be a joke , but the   peasant say , " all joke aside , i want -PRON- money . do not the big dog   bring home to -PRON- an entire slaughter cow three day ago ? " 
 then the butcher grow angry , pick up a broomstick and chase -PRON- out . 
 " wait , " say the peasant . " there be still some justice in the world , "   and -PRON- go to the royal palace and ask for a hearing . -PRON- be lead before   the king , who be sit there with -PRON- daughter . the king ask -PRON- what   injury -PRON- have suffer . 
 " alas , " -PRON- say , " the frog and the dog steal -PRON- belonging from -PRON- ,   and the butcher pay -PRON- for -PRON- loss with a stick . " then -PRON- tell -PRON-   everything that have happen . 
 at this the king 's daughter begin to laugh out loud , and the king say   to -PRON- , " i can not make that right for -PRON- , but instead -PRON- shall have -PRON-   daughter for -PRON- wife . -PRON- have never laugh before in -PRON- whole life ,   until just now at -PRON- , and i have promise -PRON- to the man who could make   -PRON- laugh . -PRON- can thank god for -PRON- good fortune . " 
 " oh , " answer the peasant , " i do not want -PRON- . i have one wife at home   already , and -PRON- be too much for -PRON- . whenever i go home , -PRON- be just as if   i have a wife stand in every corner . " 
 then the king grow angry , and say , " -PRON- be a lout . " 
 " alas , -PRON- majesty , " answer the peasant , " what can -PRON- expect from   an ox , but beef ? " 
 " wait , " reply the king . " -PRON- shall have another reward . get out of   here for now , but come back in three day , and then five hundred shall be   count out for -PRON- in full . " 
 when the peasant pass through the gate , the sentry say , " -PRON- make   the king 's daughter laugh , so -PRON- must have receive something very good . " 
 " yes , that be right , " answer the peasant . " five hundred be to be   count out to -PRON- . " 
 " listen , " say the soldier . " give -PRON- some of -PRON- . how can -PRON- spend all   that money ? " 
 " because -PRON- be -PRON- , " say the peasant , " -PRON- shall have two hundred . in   three day report to the king , and have -PRON- count out for -PRON- . " 
 a jew , who have be stand nearby and have overhear the conversation ,   run after the peasant , take hold of -PRON- coat , and say , " miracle of god ,   what a child of fortune -PRON- be ! i will change -PRON- for -PRON- . i will change   -PRON- for -PRON- into small coin . what do -PRON- want with hard taler ? " 
 " jew , " say the peasant , " -PRON- can have three hundred . give -PRON- to -PRON-   right now in coin . three day from now -PRON- will be pay for -PRON- by the   king . " 
 the jew be delighted with -PRON- small profit , and bring the sum in bad   groschen , three of which be worth two good one . after three day have   pass , in keep with the king 's order , the peasant go before the   king . 
 " pull off -PRON- coat , " say the king " -PRON- shall have -PRON- five hundred . " 
 " alas , " say the peasant , " -PRON- no longer belong to -PRON- . i give two   hundred of -PRON- to the sentry , and the jew have change three hundred for   -PRON- , so rightfully nothing more belong to -PRON- . " 
 in the meantime the soldier and the jew enter and demand what -PRON-   have receive from the peasant , and -PRON- receive the blow carefully   count out . 
 the soldier bear -PRON- patiently , for -PRON- already know how -PRON- taste , but   the jew cry out pitifully , " oh my , oh my , be these the hard   taler ? " 
 the king have to laugh at the peasant , and when -PRON- anger have subside ,   -PRON- say , " because -PRON- lose -PRON- reward even before -PRON- receive -PRON- , i will   replace -PRON- for -PRON- . go into -PRON- treasure chamber and take as much money for   -PRON- as -PRON- want . " 
 the peasant do not need to be tell twice , and -PRON- stuff as much as   would fit into -PRON- big pocket . after that -PRON- go to an inn and count   out -PRON- money . 
 the jew have creep after -PRON- and hear -PRON- mutter to -PRON- , " that   rascal of a king have cheat -PRON- after all . if -PRON- -PRON- have give -PRON- the   money , then i would know how much i have . now how can i know if what i have   the luck to put into -PRON- pocket be right ? " 
 " god forbid , " say the jew to -PRON- , " -PRON- be speak disrespectfully   of -PRON- majesty . i will run and report -PRON- , and then i shall get a reward ,   and furthermore -PRON- will be punish . " 
 when the king hear what the peasant have say -PRON- fall into a rage , and   order the jew to go and bring the offender to -PRON- . 
 the jew run to the peasant and say , " -PRON- be to go to -PRON- majesty the   king at once , and just as -PRON- be . " 
 " i know better than that what be right , " answer the peasant . " first   let -PRON- have a new coat make for -PRON- . do -PRON- think that a man with so   much money in -PRON- pocket should go before the king in this tattered old   coat ? " 
 the jew , see that the peasant could not be move without another   coat , and fear that if the king 's anger cool , -PRON- -PRON- would lose   -PRON- reward , and the peasant -PRON- punishment , say , " out of pure friendship   i will lend -PRON- a handsome coat for a little while . what people will not   do for love ! " 
 the peasant be satisfied with this , put on the jew 's coat , and go   off with -PRON- . 
 the king confront the peasant with the evil thing the jew have   accuse -PRON- of say . 
 " oh , " say the peasant , " what a jew say be always a lie . no true word   ever come out of -PRON- mouth . that rascal there be even capable of claim   that i have -PRON- coat on . " 
 " what be -PRON- say ? " shout the jew . " be that coat not -PRON- ? do i   not lend -PRON- to -PRON- out of pure friendship , so that -PRON- could appear before   -PRON- majesty the king ? " 
 when the king hear this , -PRON- say , " for sure the jew have deceive one   of -PRON- , either -PRON- or the peasant . " and once again -PRON- have the jew pay   out in hard taler . 
 the peasant , however , go home wear the good coat and with the good   money in -PRON- pocket , say to -PRON- , " this time i make -PRON- . " 

 the wolf and the man 

 the wolf answer , " if i could see a man just once , i would attack -PRON- nonetheless . " 
 " i can help -PRON- to do that , " say the fox .   " come to -PRON- early tomorrow morning , and i will show -PRON- one . " 
 the wolf arrive on time , and the fox take -PRON- out to the path which the huntsman use every day .   first an old discharge soldier come by . 
 " be that a man ? " ask the wolf . 
 " no , " answer the fox . " -PRON- have be one . " 
 afterwards come a little boy on -PRON- way to school . 
 " be that a man ? " 
 " no , -PRON- will yet become one . " 
 finally a huntsman come by with -PRON- double - barrel gun on -PRON- back , and a sword at -PRON- side . 
 the fox say to the wolf , " look , there come a man . -PRON- be the one -PRON- must attack , but i be go back to -PRON- den . " 
 the wolf then charge at the man . 
 when the huntsman see -PRON- -PRON- say , " too bad that i have not load with a bullet . "   then -PRON- aim and fire a load of shot into -PRON- face . 
 the wolf pull an awful face , but do not let -PRON- be frightened , and attack -PRON- again , on which the huntsman give -PRON- the second barrel . the wolf swallow -PRON- pain and charge at the huntsman again , who in turn draw out -PRON- naked sword , and give -PRON- a few blow with -PRON- leave and right , so that , bleed all over , -PRON- run howl back to the fox . 
 " well , " brother wolf , say the fox , " how do -PRON- get along with man ? " 
 " oh , " reply the wolf , " i never imagine the strength of man to be what -PRON- be .   first , -PRON- take a stick from -PRON- shoulder , and blow into -PRON- , and then something fly into -PRON- face which tickle -PRON- terribly .   then -PRON- breathe once more into the stick , and -PRON- fly up -PRON- nose like lightning and hail .   then when i get next to -PRON- , -PRON- draw a naked rib out of -PRON- body , and -PRON- beat -PRON- so with -PRON- that -PRON- almost kill -PRON- . " 
 " see what a braggart -PRON- be , " say the fox .   " -PRON- throw -PRON- hatchet so far that -PRON- can not get -PRON- back again . " 

 the juniper tree 

 long ago , at least two thousand year , there be a rich man who have a beautiful and pious wife , and -PRON- love each other dearly . however , -PRON- have no child , though -PRON- wish very much to have some , and the woman pray for -PRON- day and night , but -PRON- do not get any , and -PRON- do not get any . 
 in front of -PRON- house there be a courtyard where there stand a juniper tree . one day in winter the woman be stand beneath -PRON- , peel -PRON- an apple , and while -PRON- be thus peel the apple , -PRON- cut -PRON- finger , and the blood fall into the snow . 
 " oh , " say the woman . -PRON- sigh heavily , look at the blood before -PRON- , and be most unhappy . " if only i have a child as red as blood and as white as snow . " and as -PRON- say that , -PRON- become quite contented , and feel sure that -PRON- be go to happen . 
 then -PRON- go into the house , and a month go by , and the snow be go . and two month , and everything be green . and three month , and all the flower come out of the earth . and four month , and all the tree in the wood grow thick , and the green branch be all entwine in one another , and the bird sang until the wood resound and the blossom fall from the tree . then the fifth month pass , and -PRON- stand beneath the juniper tree , which smell so sweet that -PRON- heart jump for joy , and -PRON- fall on -PRON- knee and be beside -PRON- . and when the sixth month be over , the fruit be thick and large , and then -PRON- be quite still . and after the seventh month -PRON- pick the juniper berry and eat -PRON- greedily . then -PRON- grow sick and sorrowful . then the eighth month pass , and -PRON- call -PRON- husband to -PRON- , and cry , and say , " if i die , then bury -PRON- beneath the juniper tree . " then -PRON- be quite comforted and happy until the next month be over , and then -PRON- have a child as white as snow and as red as blood , and when -PRON- see -PRON- , -PRON- be so happy that -PRON- die . 
 -PRON- husband bury -PRON- beneath the juniper tree , and -PRON- begin to cry bitterly . after some time -PRON- be more at ease , and although -PRON- still cry , -PRON- could bear -PRON- . and some time later -PRON- take another wife . 
 -PRON- have a daughter by the second wife , but the first wife 's child be a little son , and -PRON- be as red as blood and as white as snow . when the woman look at -PRON- daughter , -PRON- love -PRON- very much , but then -PRON- look at the little boy , and -PRON- pierce -PRON- heart , for -PRON- think that -PRON- would always stand in -PRON- way , and -PRON- be always think how -PRON- could get the entire inheritance for -PRON- daughter . and the evil one fill -PRON- mind with this until -PRON- grow very angry with the little boy , and -PRON- push -PRON- from one corner to the other and slap -PRON- here and cuffed -PRON- there , until the poor child be always afraid , for when -PRON- come home from school there be nowhere -PRON- could find any peace . 
 one day the woman have go upstairs to -PRON- room , when -PRON- little daughter come up too , and say , " mother , give -PRON- an apple . " 
 " yes , -PRON- child , " say the woman , and give -PRON- a beautiful apple out of the chest . the chest have a large heavy lid with a large sharp iron lock . 
 " mother , " say the little daughter , " be brother not to have one too ? " 
 this make the woman angry , but -PRON- say , " yes , when -PRON- come home from school . " 
 when from the window -PRON- see -PRON- come , -PRON- be as though the evil one come over -PRON- , and -PRON- grab the apple and take -PRON- away from -PRON- daughter , say , " -PRON- shall not have one before -PRON- brother . " 
 -PRON- throw the apple into the chest , and shut -PRON- . then the little boy come in the door , and the evil one make -PRON- say to -PRON- kindly , " -PRON- son , do -PRON- want an apple ? " and -PRON- look at -PRON- fiercely . 
 " mother , " say the little boy , " how angry -PRON- look . yes , give -PRON- an apple . " 
 then -PRON- seem to -PRON- as if -PRON- have to persuade -PRON- . " come with -PRON- , " -PRON- say , open the lid of the chest . " take out an apple for -PRON- . " and while the little boy be lean over , the evil one prompt -PRON- , and crash ! -PRON- slam down the lid , and -PRON- head fly off , fall among the red apple . 
 then fear overcome -PRON- , and -PRON- think , " maybe i can get out of this . " so -PRON- go upstairs to -PRON- room to -PRON- chest of drawer , and take a white scarf out of the top drawer , and set the head on the neck again , tie the scarf around -PRON- so that nothing could be see . then -PRON- set -PRON- on a chair in front of the door and put the apple in -PRON- hand . 
 after this marlene come into the kitchen to -PRON- mother , who be stand by the fire with a pot of hot water before -PRON- which -PRON- be stir around and around . 
 " mother , " say marlene , " brother be sit at the door , and -PRON- look totally white and have an apple in -PRON- hand . i ask -PRON- to give -PRON- the apple , but -PRON- do not answer -PRON- , and i be very frightened . " 
 " go back to -PRON- , " say -PRON- mother , " and if -PRON- will not answer -PRON- , then box -PRON- ear . " 
 so marlene go to -PRON- and say , " brother , give -PRON- the apple . " but -PRON- be silent , so -PRON- give -PRON- one on the ear , and -PRON- head fall off . marlene be terrify , and begin cry and scream , and run to -PRON- mother , and say , " oh , mother , i have knock -PRON- brother 's head off , " and -PRON- cry and cry and could not be comfort . 
 " marlene , " say the mother , " what have -PRON- do ? be quiet and do not let anyone know about -PRON- . -PRON- can not be help now . -PRON- will cook -PRON- into stew . " 
 then the mother take the little boy and chop -PRON- in piece , put -PRON- into the pot , and cook -PRON- into stew . but marlene stand by cry and cry , and all -PRON- tear fall into the pot , and -PRON- do not need any salt . 
 then the father come home , and sit down at the table and say , " where be -PRON- son ? " and the mother serve up a large , large dish of stew , and marlene cry and could not stop . 
 then the father say again , " where be -PRON- son ? " 
 " oh , " say the mother , " -PRON- have go across the country to -PRON- mother 's great uncle . -PRON- will stay there awhile . " 
 " what be -PRON- do there ? -PRON- do not even say good - bye to -PRON- . " 
 " oh , -PRON- want to go , and ask -PRON- if -PRON- could stay six week . -PRON- will be well take care of there . " 
 " oh , " say the man , " i be unhappy . -PRON- be not right . -PRON- should have say good - bye to -PRON- . " with that -PRON- begin to eat , say , " marlene , why be -PRON- cry ? -PRON- brother will certainly come back . " 
 then -PRON- say , " wife , this food be delicious . give -PRON- some more . " and the more -PRON- eat the more -PRON- want , and -PRON- say , " give -PRON- some more . -PRON- two shall have none of -PRON- . -PRON- seem to -PRON- as if -PRON- be all mine . " and -PRON- eat and eat , throw all the bone under the table , until -PRON- have finish -PRON- all . 
 marlene go to -PRON- chest of drawer , take -PRON- good silk scarf from the bottom drawer , and gather all the bone from beneath the table and tie -PRON- up in -PRON- silk scarf , then carry -PRON- outside the door , cry tear of blood . 
 -PRON- lay -PRON- down beneath the juniper tree on the green grass , and after -PRON- have put -PRON- there , -PRON- suddenly feel good and do not cry anymore . 
 then the juniper tree begin to move . the branch move apart , then move together again , just as if someone be rejoice and clap -PRON- hand . at the same time a mist seem to rise from the tree , and in the center of this mist -PRON- burn like a fire , and a beautiful bird fly out of the fire singing magnificently , and -PRON- fly high into the air , and when -PRON- be go , the juniper tree be just as -PRON- have be before , and the cloth with the bone be no longer there . marlene , however , be as happy and contented as if -PRON- brother be still alive . and -PRON- go merrily into the house , sit down at the table , and eat . 
 then the bird fly away and light on a goldsmith 's house , and begin to sing : 
 the goldsmith be sit in -PRON- workshop make a golden chain , when -PRON- hear the bird sit on -PRON- roof and singing . the song seem very beautiful to -PRON- . -PRON- stand up , but as -PRON- cross the threshold -PRON- lose one of -PRON- slippers . however , -PRON- go right up the middle of the street with only one slipper and one sock on . -PRON- have -PRON- leather apron on , and in one hand -PRON- have a golden chain and in the other -PRON- tong . the sun be shin brightly on the street . 
 -PRON- walk onward , then stand still and say to the bird , " bird , " -PRON- say , " how beautifully -PRON- can sing . sing that piece again for -PRON- . " 
 " no , " say the bird , " i do not sing twice for nothing . give -PRON- the golden chain , and then i will sing -PRON- again for -PRON- . " 
 the goldsmith say , " here be the golden chain for -PRON- . now sing that song again for -PRON- . " then the bird come and take the golden chain in -PRON- right claw , and go and sit in front of the goldsmith , and sing : 
 then the bird fly away to a shoemaker , and light on -PRON- roof and sing : 
 hear this , the shoemaker run out of door in -PRON- shirtsleeve , and look up at -PRON- roof , and have to hold -PRON- hand in front of -PRON- eye to keep the sun from blind -PRON- . " bird , " say -PRON- , " how beautifully -PRON- can sing . " 
 then -PRON- call in at -PRON- door , " wife , come outside . there be a bird here . look at this bird . -PRON- certainly can sing . " then -PRON- call -PRON- daughter and -PRON- child , and the journeyman , and the apprentice , and the maid , and -PRON- all come out into the street and look at the bird and see how beautiful -PRON- be , and what fine red and green feather -PRON- have , and how -PRON- neck be like pure gold , and how -PRON- eye shine like star in -PRON- head . 
 " bird , " say the shoemaker , " now sing that song again for -PRON- . " 
 " no , " say the bird , " i do not sing twice for nothing . -PRON- must give -PRON- something . " 
 " wife , " say the man , " go into the shop . there be a pair of red shoe on the top shelf . bring -PRON- down . " then the wife go and bring the shoe . 
 " there , bird , " say the man , " now sing that piece again for -PRON- . " then the bird come and take the shoe in -PRON- left claw , and fly back to the roof , and sing : 
 when -PRON- have finish -PRON- song -PRON- fly away . in -PRON- right claw -PRON- have the chain and in -PRON- left one the shoe . -PRON- fly far away to a mill , and the mill go clickety - clack , clickety - clack , clickety - clack . in the mill sit twenty miller 's apprentice cut a stone , and chisel chip - chop , chip - chop , chip - chop . and the mill go clickety - clack , clickety - clack , clickety - clack . 
 then the bird go and sit on a linden tree which stand in front of the mill , and sing : 
 then one of -PRON- stop work . 
 then two more stop work and listen , 
 then four more stop , 
 now only eight only be chisel , 
 now only five , 
 now only one , 
 then the last one stop also , and hear the last word . " bird , " say -PRON- , " how beautifully -PRON- s . let -PRON- hear that too . sing -PRON- once more for -PRON- . " 
 " no , " say the bird , " i do not sing twice for nothing . give -PRON- the millstone , and then i will sing -PRON- again . " 
 " yes , " -PRON- say , " if -PRON- belong only to -PRON- , -PRON- should have -PRON- . " 
 " yes , " say the other , " if -PRON- sing again -PRON- can have -PRON- . " 
 then the bird come down , and the twenty miller take a beam and lift the stone up . yo - heave - ho ! yo - heave - ho ! yo - heave - ho ! 
 the bird stick -PRON- neck through the hole and put the stone on as if -PRON- be a collar , then fly to the tree again , and sing : 
 when -PRON- be finish sing , -PRON- spread -PRON- wing , and in -PRON- right claw -PRON- have the chain , and in -PRON- left one the shoe , and around -PRON- neck the millstone . -PRON- fly far away to -PRON- father 's house . 
 in the room the father , the mother , and marlene be sit at the table . 
 the father say , " i feel so contented . i be so happy . " 
 " not i , " say the mother , " i feel uneasy , just as if a bad storm be come . " 
 but marlene just sit and cry and cry . 
 then the bird fly up , and as -PRON- seat -PRON- on the roof , the father say , " oh , i feel so truly happy , and the sun be shin so beautifully outside . i feel as if i be about to see some old acquaintance again . " 
 " not i , " say the woman , " i be so afraid that -PRON- tooth be chatter , and i feel like i have fire in -PRON- vein . " and -PRON- tear open -PRON- bodice even more . marlene sit in a corner cry . -PRON- hold a handkerchief before -PRON- eye and cry until -PRON- be wet clear through . 
 then the bird seat -PRON- on the juniper tree , and sing : 
 the mother stop -PRON- ear and shut -PRON- eye , not want to see or hear , but there be a roar in -PRON- ear like the fierce storm , and -PRON- eye burn and flash like lightning . 
 " oh , mother , " say the man , " that be a beautiful bird . -PRON- be sing so splendidly , and the sun be shin so warmly , and -PRON- smell like pure cinnamon . " 
 then marlene lay -PRON- head on -PRON- knee and cry and cry , but the man say , " i be go out . i must see the bird up close . " 
 " oh , do not go , " say the woman , " i feel as if the whole house be shake and on fire . " 
 but the man go out and look at the bird . 
 with this the bird drop the golden chain , and -PRON- fall right around the man 's neck , so exactly around -PRON- that -PRON- fit beautifully . then the man go in and say , " just look what a beautiful bird that be , and what a beautiful golden chain -PRON- have give -PRON- , and how nice -PRON- look . " 
 but the woman be terrify . -PRON- fall down on the floor in the room , and -PRON- cap fall off -PRON- head . then the bird sing once more : 
 " i wish i be a thousand fathom beneath the earth , so i would not have to hear that ! " 
 then the woman fall down as if -PRON- be dead . 
 " oh , " say marlene , " i too will go out and see if the bird will give -PRON- something . " then -PRON- go out . 
 -PRON- throw the shoe down to -PRON- . 
 then -PRON- be contented and happy . -PRON- put on the new red shoe and dance and leap into the house . " oh , " -PRON- say , " i be so sad when i go out and now i be so contented . that be a splendid bird , -PRON- have give -PRON- a pair of red shoe . " 
 " no , " say the woman , jump to -PRON- foot and with -PRON- hair stand up like flame of fire , " i feel as if the world be come to an end . i too , will go out and see if -PRON- make -PRON- feel good . " 
 and as -PRON- go out the door , crash ! the bird throw the millstone on -PRON- head , and -PRON- crush -PRON- to death . 
 the father and marlene hear -PRON- and go out . smoke , flame , and fire be rise from the place , and when that be over , the little brother be stand there , and -PRON- take -PRON- father and marlene by the hand , and all three be very happy , and -PRON- go into the house , sit down at the table , and eat . 

 the fox and the cat 

 the fox , fill with arrogance , examine the cat from head to foot , and   for a long time do not know whether -PRON- should give an answer . at last -PRON-   say , " oh , -PRON- poor beard - licker , -PRON- speckle fool , -PRON- hungry mouse   hunter , what be -PRON- think ? have -PRON- the nerve to ask how i be do ?   what do -PRON- know ? how many trick do -PRON- understand ? " 
 " i understand but one , " answer the cat , modestly . 
 " what kind of a trick be -PRON- ? " ask the fox . 
 " when the dog be chase -PRON- , i can jump into a tree and save -PRON- . " 
 " be that all ? " say the fox . " i be master of a hundred trick , and in   addition to that i have a sackful of cunning . i feel sorry for -PRON- . come   with -PRON- , and i will teach -PRON- how one escape from the dog . " 
 just then a hunter come by with four dog . the cat jump nimbly up a   tree , and sit down at -PRON- top , where the branch and foliage completely   hide -PRON- . 
 " untie -PRON- sack , mr . fox , untie -PRON- sack , " the cat shout to -PRON- ,   but the dog have already seize -PRON- , and be hold -PRON- fast . 
 " oh , mr . fox , " shout the cat . " -PRON- and -PRON- hundred trick be leave   in the lurch . if -PRON- be able to climb like i can , -PRON- would not have   lose -PRON- life . " 

 the twelve huntsman 

 then -PRON- say to -PRON- beloved , " i must now go and leave -PRON- . i give -PRON- a   ring to remember -PRON- by . as soon as i be king , i will return and take -PRON-   home with -PRON- . " 
 then -PRON- ride away , and when -PRON- reach -PRON- father , the latter be   mortally ill and near death . 
 the king say to -PRON- , " -PRON- dear son , i want to see -PRON- one more   time before -PRON- end . promise -PRON- to marry the woman of -PRON- choice , " and -PRON-   name a certain princess who be to become -PRON- wife . 
 the son be so grieve that without think -PRON- say , " yes , dear   father , -PRON- will shall be do . " 
 then the king close -PRON- eye and die . 
 after the son have be proclaim king , and the period of mourning have   pass , -PRON- have to keep the promise that -PRON- have give -PRON- father . -PRON-   propose marriage to the princess , and -PRON- be promise to -PRON- . 
 -PRON- first fiance hear about this , and be so sadden by -PRON-   faithlessness that -PRON- nearly die . 
 then -PRON- father say to -PRON- , " dear child , why be -PRON- so sad ? -PRON-   shall have whatev -PRON- want . " 
 -PRON- think for a moment and then say , " dear father , i want eleven   girl exactly like -PRON- in appearance , figure , and size . " 
 the father say , " if -PRON- be possible , -PRON- wish shall be fulfil , " and   -PRON- have -PRON- entire kingdom search until eleven girl be find who be   exactly like -PRON- daughter in appearance , figure , and size . 
 when -PRON- come to the princess , -PRON- have twelve huntsman 's outfit make ,   each one like the other . the eleven girl put on the huntsman 's outfit ,   and -PRON- -PRON- put on the twelfth outfit . 
 after this -PRON- take leave of -PRON- father , and ride away with -PRON- . -PRON-   ride to the court of -PRON- former fianc , whom -PRON- love so dearly .   there -PRON- ask if -PRON- need any huntsman , and if -PRON- would take all of   -PRON- into -PRON- service . the king look at -PRON- without recognize -PRON- .   because -PRON- be such good - look fellow , -PRON- say , yes , that -PRON- would   willingly take -PRON- , and then -PRON- be the king 's twelve huntsman . 
 now the king have a lion that be a miraculous animal , for -PRON- know all   hidden and secret thing . -PRON- happen that one evening the lion say to   the king , " -PRON- think that -PRON- have twelve huntsman . " 
 " yes , " say the king , " -PRON- be twelve huntsman . " 
 the lion continue , " -PRON- be mistaken . -PRON- be twelve girl . " 
 the king say , " that be absolutely not true . how can -PRON- prove that to   -PRON- ? " 
 " oh , just have some pea scatter in -PRON- antechamber , " answer the   lion , " and then -PRON- shall soon see . man have a firm step , and when -PRON-   walk over the pea , none of -PRON- will be move . on the other hand , girl   trip and skip and shuffle -PRON- foot , roll the pea about . " 
 the king like this advise and have pea scatter on the floor . 
 now one of the king 's servant like the huntsman , and when -PRON- hear   that -PRON- be go to be put to this test , -PRON- go to -PRON- and tell -PRON-   everything , say , " the lion want to make the king believe that -PRON- be   girl . " 
 the princess thank -PRON- , then say to -PRON- girl , " be strong , and step   firmly on the pea . " 
 the next morning the king have the twelve huntsman call before -PRON- .   when -PRON- come into the antechamber where the pea be lie , -PRON-   step so firmly on -PRON- , and have such a strong , sure walk , that not one   of the pea roll or move . 
 after -PRON- have go , the king say to the lion , " -PRON- lie to -PRON- . -PRON-   walk just like man . " 
 the lion say , " -PRON- know that be go to be put to a test , and   act like -PRON- be strong . just have twelve spin wheel bring into   the antechamber . -PRON- will go up to -PRON- and admire -PRON- . no man would do   that . " 
 the king like this advice , and -PRON- have the spinning wheel set up in   the antechamber . 
 but the servant who be honest with the huntsman go to -PRON- and tell   -PRON- about the proposal . 
 so when -PRON- be alone , the princess say to -PRON- eleven girl , " be   strong and do not look around at the spinning wheel . " 
 the next morning when the king have -PRON- twelve huntsman summon , -PRON-   walk through the antechamber without look at the spinning wheel at   all . 
 then the king again say to the lion , " -PRON- lie to -PRON- . -PRON- be man ,   for -PRON- do not look at the spinning wheel . " 
 the lion answer , " -PRON- know that -PRON- be go to be put to a test ,   and act like -PRON- be strong . " 
 the king , however , refuse to believe the lion anymore . 
 the twelve huntsman always accompany the king hunting , and the longer   -PRON- know -PRON- , the good -PRON- like -PRON- . now -PRON- happen that once when   -PRON- be out hunt , news come that the king 's bride be approach .   when the true bride hear this , -PRON- hurt -PRON- so much that -PRON- almost break   -PRON- heart , and -PRON- faint and fall to the ground . 
 think that something have happen to -PRON- dear huntsman , the king run   up to -PRON- in order to help -PRON- . pull the huntsman 's glove off , -PRON- see   the ring that -PRON- have give to -PRON- first fiance , and when -PRON- look   into -PRON- face , -PRON- recognize -PRON- . then -PRON- heart be so touch that -PRON-   kiss -PRON- , and when -PRON- open -PRON- eye -PRON- say , " -PRON- be -PRON- , and i be   your , and no one in the world can change that . " 
 -PRON- send a messenger to the other bride , and ask -PRON- to return to -PRON-   own kingdom , for , as -PRON- inform -PRON- , -PRON- already have a wife , and someone   who have find an old key do not need a new one . 
 after this -PRON- wedding be celebrate , and the lion be accept back   into favor , because , after all , -PRON- have tell the truth . 

 clever gretel 

 then after return home , because -PRON- be so happy , -PRON- would drink a   swallow of wine , and the wine would give -PRON- an appetite , so -PRON- would   taste the good of what -PRON- have cook , until -PRON- be quite full , and then   -PRON- would say , " the cook have to know how the food taste . " 
 one day -PRON- master say to -PRON- , " gretel , this evening a guest be   come . prepare two chicken for -PRON- , the good way that -PRON- can . " 
 " yes indeed , sir , " answer gretel . -PRON- kill the chicken , scald   -PRON- , pluck -PRON- , stick -PRON- on the spit , and then , as evening   approach , put -PRON- over the fire to roast . the chicken begin to brown ,   and be nearly do , but the guest have not yet arrive . 
 gretel call to -PRON- master , " if the guest do not come , -PRON- will have to   take the chicken from the fire . and -PRON- will be a crying shame if -PRON- be   not eat soon , because -PRON- be at -PRON- juicy good right now . " 
 the master answer , " -PRON- be right . -PRON- will run and fetch the guest   -PRON- . " 
 as soon as the master have turn -PRON- back , gretel set the spit and the   chicken aside and think , " stand here by the fire have make -PRON- sweaty   and thirsty . who know when -PRON- will be back ? meanwhile -PRON- will just run   down into the cellar and take a swallow . " 
 so -PRON- run down , lift a jug to -PRON- lip , say , " god bless -PRON- for   -PRON- , gretel ! " and take a healthy drink . " wine belong together , " -PRON- say   further . " -PRON- be not good to keep -PRON- apart , " and take another healthy drink . 
 then -PRON- go and place the chicken over the fire again , baste -PRON-   with butter , and cheerfully turn the spit . because the roast chicken   smell so good , -PRON- think , " -PRON- could be lack something . -PRON- would better   taste -PRON- ! " -PRON- test -PRON- with -PRON- finger , and say , " my , these   chicken be good ! -PRON- be a sin and a shame that -PRON- will not be eat at   once ! " 
 -PRON- run to the window to see if -PRON- master and -PRON- guest be arrive ,   but -PRON- see no one . return to the chicken , -PRON- say , " that one wing be   burn . -PRON- would better just eat -PRON- . " so -PRON- cut -PRON- off and eat -PRON- , and -PRON-   taste very good . when -PRON- have finish -PRON- , -PRON- think , " -PRON- would better eat   the other one too , or the master will see that something be miss . " 
 when both wing have be eat , -PRON- once again look for -PRON- master ,   but could not see -PRON- . then -PRON- occur to -PRON- , " who know ? perhaps   -PRON- have go somewhere else to eat and be not come here at all . " then   -PRON- say , " well , gretel , be of good cheer ! the one have already be cut   into . have another drink and eat the rest of -PRON- . when -PRON- be go , -PRON- can   relax . why should this good gift of god go to waste ? " 
 so -PRON- run to the cellar once again , down a noble drink , and   cheerfully finish off the first chicken . when the one chicken be go ,   and -PRON- master still have not yet return , -PRON- look at the other chicken   and say , " where the one be , the other should follow . the two belong   together . what be right for the one , can not be wrong for the other . i   believe that if i have another drink , -PRON- will do -PRON- no harm . " so -PRON- take   another hearty drink , and send the second chicken run after the first   one . 
 just as -PRON- be make the most of -PRON- , -PRON- master return , call   out , " gretel , hurry up , the guest be right behind -PRON- . " 
 " yes , sir , -PRON- be get -PRON- ready , " answer gretel . 
 meanwhile the master see that the table be set , and -PRON- pick up the   large knife that -PRON- want to carve the chicken with , and stand in the   hallway sharpen -PRON- . 
 the guest arrive and knock politely on the door . gretel run to see   who -PRON- be , and when -PRON- see that -PRON- be the guest , -PRON- hold a finger   before -PRON- mouth , and say , " be quiet ! be quiet ! hurry and get away from   here . if -PRON- master catch -PRON- , -PRON- will be sorry . yes , -PRON- invite -PRON- for   an evening meal , but all -PRON- really want be to cut off both of -PRON- ear .   listen , -PRON- be sharpen -PRON- knife for -PRON- right now . " 
 the guest hear the whetting and run back down the step as fast as -PRON-   could . 
 then gretel , who be not a bit lazy , ran to -PRON- master , cry , " just   what kind of a guest do -PRON- invite ? " 
 " why , gretel ? what do -PRON- mean by that ? " 
 " well , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- take both of the chicken off the platter , just   as i be about to carry -PRON- out , and then run away with -PRON- . " 
 " now that be a fine tune ! " say the master , feel sorry about the loss   of the good chicken . " at the least , -PRON- could have leave one of -PRON- , so i   would have something to eat . " 
 -PRON- call out to -PRON- to stop , but the guest pretend not to hear . then   -PRON- run after -PRON- , the knife still in -PRON- hand , shouting , " just one ! just   one ! " but the guest could only think that -PRON- want -PRON- to give up one of   -PRON- ear , so -PRON- run as though there be a fire burn beneath -PRON- , in   order to get home with both ear . 

 the old grandfather and -PRON- grandson 

 -PRON- son and -PRON- son 's wife be disgust with this , so finally -PRON-   make the old grandfather sit in the corner behind the stove , where -PRON-   give -PRON- -PRON- food in an earthenware bowl , and not enough at that . -PRON- sit   there look sadly at the table , and -PRON- eye grow moist . one day -PRON-   shake hand could not hold the bowl , and -PRON- fall to the ground and   break . the young woman scold , but -PRON- say not a word . -PRON- only sob .   then for a few heller -PRON- buy -PRON- a wooden bowl and make -PRON- eat from   -PRON- . 
 once when -PRON- be all sit there , the little grandson of four   year push some piece of wood together on the floor . 
 " what be -PRON- make ? " ask -PRON- father . 
 " oh , -PRON- be make a little trough for -PRON- and mother to eat from when -PRON- be   big . " 
 the man and the woman look at one another and then begin to cry . -PRON-   immediately bring the old grandfather to the table , and always let -PRON-   eat there from then on . and if -PRON- spill a little , -PRON- do not say a   thing . 

 the water nixie 

 -PRON- give the girl tangle dirty flax to spin , and -PRON- have to fill a   bottomless barrel with water . the boy have to chop down a tree with a dull   ax , and all -PRON- get to eat be dumpling as hard as rock . 
 finally the child become so impatient , that -PRON- wait until one   sunday when the nixie be at church , and then run away . when church be   over , the nixie see that the bird have fly away , and -PRON- follow -PRON-   with long stride . 
 the child see -PRON- from afar , and the girl throw a brush behind -PRON- ,   which turn into a large brush - mountain with thousand and thousand of   spike , which the nixie have to climb over with great difficulty , but -PRON-   finally get to the other side . 
 when the child see this the boy throw a comb behind -PRON- , which   turn into a large comb - mountain with a thousand time a thousand tooth ,   but the nixie be able to keep hold of -PRON- , and finally get to the other   side . 
 then the girl throw a mirror behind -PRON- , which turn into a glass   mountain , which be so slippery , so slippery that -PRON- be impossible for   the nixie to climb over -PRON- . 
 then -PRON- think , " i will quickly go home and get -PRON- ax and chop the   glass mountain in two . " 
 however , by the time -PRON- return and have chop up the glass   mountain , the child be far away and have escape , so the water nixie   have to trudge back to -PRON- well . 

 the death of the little hen 

 the little rooster run to the well as fast as -PRON- could , and say ,   " well , give -PRON- some water , for the little hen be lie on nut mountain .   -PRON- swallow a large nut kernal and be about to choke to death on   -PRON- . " 
 the well answer , " first run to the bride , and get some red silk from   -PRON- . " 
 the little rooster run to the bride : " bride , give -PRON- some red silk , and   -PRON- will give the red silk to the well , and the well will give -PRON- some water ,   and -PRON- will take the water to the little hen who be lie on nut mountain .   -PRON- swallow a large nut kernal and be about to choke to death on   -PRON- . " 
 the bride answer , " first run and get -PRON- wreath . -PRON- get catch on a   willow branch . " 
 so the little rooster run to the willow and pull the wreath from -PRON-   branch and take -PRON- to the bride , and the bride give -PRON- some red silk ,   which -PRON- take to the well , which give -PRON- some water , and the little   rooster take the water to the little hen , but when -PRON- arrive , -PRON- have   already choke to death , and -PRON- lie there dead , and do not move at   all . 
 the little rooster be so sad that -PRON- cry aloud , and all the animal   come to mourn for the little hen . six mouse build a small carriage which   be to carry the little hen to -PRON- grave . when the carriage be finish ,   -PRON- hitch -PRON- to -PRON- , and the little rooster drive . on the way   -PRON- meet the fox . 
 " where be -PRON- go , little rooster ? " 
 " i 'm go to bury -PRON- little hen . " 
 " may i ride along ? " 
 " yes , but -PRON- must sit at the rear , because -PRON- little horse do not like   -PRON- too close to the front . " 
 so -PRON- sit at the rear , and then the wolf , the bear , the elk , the lion ,   and all the animal in the forest . -PRON- ride on until -PRON- come to a   brook . " how can -PRON- get across ? " say the little rooster . 
 a straw be lie there next to the brook , and -PRON- say , " i 'll lay   -PRON- across , and -PRON- can drive over -PRON- . " but just as the six mouse get   onto the straw , -PRON- slip into the water , and the six mouse all fall in   and drown . 
 -PRON- do not know what to do , until a coal come and say , " i be large   enough . i will lay -PRON- across and -PRON- can drive over -PRON- . " so the coal   lay -PRON- across the water , but unfortunately -PRON- touch the water ,   hiss , and go out ; and -PRON- be dead . 
 a stone see this happen , and want to help the little rooster , -PRON-   lay -PRON- across the water . the little rooster pull the carriage   -PRON- . -PRON- nearly reach the other side with the dead little hen , but   there be too many other seat on the back of the carriage , and the   carriage roll back , and -PRON- all fall into the water and drown . 
 now the little rooster be all alone with the dead little hen . -PRON- dig a   grave for -PRON- and lay -PRON- inside . then -PRON- make a mound on top , and sit on   -PRON- , and grieve there so long that -PRON- too die . and then everyone be   dead . 

 straw , coal , and bean 

 the straw say , " dear friend , where do -PRON- come from ? " 
 the coal answer , " i jump from the fireplace , to -PRON- good fortune . if   i have not force -PRON- way out , i surely would have die . i would have burn   to ash . " 
 the bean say , " i too save -PRON- skin . if the old woman have get -PRON-   into the pot i would have be cook to mush without mercy , just like -PRON-   comrade . " 
 " would -PRON- fate have be any good ? " say the straw . " the old woman   send all -PRON- brother up in fire and smoke . -PRON- grab sixty at once and   kill -PRON- . fortunately i slip through -PRON- finger . " 
 " what should -PRON- do now ? " ask the coal . 
 " because -PRON- have so fortunately escape death , " answer the bean , " i   think that -PRON- should join together as comrade . to prevent some new   misfortune from befall -PRON- here , let -PRON- together make -PRON- way to another   land . " 
 this proposal please the other two , and -PRON- set forth all together . 
 -PRON- soon come to a small brook , and because there be neither a bridge   nor a walkway there , -PRON- do not know how -PRON- would get across -PRON- . 
 then the straw have a good idea , and say , " i will lay -PRON- across -PRON- ,   and -PRON- can walk across -PRON- like on a bridge . " 
 so the straw stretch -PRON- from one bank to the other . the coal ,   who be a hot - headed fellow , step brashly onto the newly construct   bridge , but when -PRON- get to the middle and hear the water rush beneath   -PRON- , -PRON- take fright , stop , and do not dare to go any further . then the   straw catch fire , break into two piece , and fall into the brook . the   coal slide after -PRON- , hiss as -PRON- fall into the water , and give up the   ghost . 
 the bean who have cautiously stay behind on the bank have to laugh at   the event . -PRON- could not stop , and -PRON- laugh so fiercely that -PRON- burst .   now -PRON- too would have die , but fortunately a wandering tailor be there ,   rest near the brook . have a compassionate heart , -PRON- get out a needle   and thread and sew the bean back together . 
 the bean thank -PRON- most kindly . however , because -PRON- have use black   thread , since that time all bean have have a black seam . 

 the singing bone 

 now in this country there live two brother , son of a poor man . -PRON- declare that -PRON- dare to attempt the task . the old one , who be crafty and shrewd , do so out of pride . the young one , who be innocent and simple , do so because of -PRON- kind heart . 
 the king say , " in order to be more sure of find the beast , -PRON- should enter the wood from opposite side . " 
 thus the old one enter the wood from the west , and the young one from the east . 
 after the young one have walk a little while , a little dwarf step up to -PRON- . -PRON- hold a black spear in -PRON- hand and say , " i be give -PRON- this spear because -PRON- heart be innocent and good . with -PRON- -PRON- can confidently attack the wild boar . -PRON- will do -PRON- no harm . " 
 -PRON- thank the dwarf , put the spear on -PRON- shoulder , and walk on fearlessly . 
 before long -PRON- see the beast . -PRON- attack -PRON- , but -PRON- hold the spear toward -PRON- , and in -PRON- blind fury -PRON- run into the spear with such force that -PRON- heart be slash in two . 
 then -PRON- put the monster on -PRON- back and turn towards home , intend to take -PRON- to the king . 
 emerge from the other side of the wood , -PRON- come to a house where people be make merry drinking wine and dancing . -PRON- old brother be there too . think that the boar would not run away from -PRON- any time soon , -PRON- have decide to drink -PRON- some real courage . when -PRON- see -PRON- young brother come out of the wood with -PRON- booty , -PRON- envious and evil heart give -PRON- no peace . 
 -PRON- call out to -PRON- , " come in , dear brother . rest and refresh -PRON- with a beaker of wine . " 
 the young brother , suspect no evil , go in and tell -PRON- about the good dwarf who have give -PRON- the spear with which -PRON- have kill the boar . 
 the old brother keep -PRON- there until evening , and then -PRON- set forth together . after dark -PRON- come to a bridge over a brook , and the old brother let the young one go first . when the young brother reach the middle above the water , the old one give -PRON- such a blow from behind that -PRON- fall down dead . 
 -PRON- bury -PRON- beneath the bridge , take the boar , and deliver -PRON- to the king , pretend that -PRON- have kill -PRON- . with this -PRON- receive the king 's daughter in marriage . 
 when -PRON- young brother do not return -PRON- say , " the boar must have rip -PRON- apart , " and every one believe -PRON- . 
 but as nothing remain hidden from god , this black deed be also to come to light . 
 after many long year a shepherd be drive -PRON- herd across the bridge and see a little snow - white bone lie in the sand below . think that -PRON- would make a good mouthpiece , -PRON- climb down , pick -PRON- up , and then carve out of -PRON- a mouthpiece for -PRON- horn . when -PRON- blow into -PRON- for the first time , to -PRON- great astonishment the bone begin to sing by -PRON- : 
 " what a wonderful horn , " say the shepherd . " -PRON- sing by -PRON- . i must take -PRON- to the king . " 
 when -PRON- bring -PRON- before the king , the horn again begin to sing -PRON- little song . the king understand -PRON- well , and have the earth beneath the bridge dig up . then the whole skeleton of the murder man come to light . 
 the wicked brother could not deny the deed . -PRON- be sew into a sack and drown alive . the murder man 's bone be lay to rest in a beautiful grave in the churchyard . 

 han in luck 

 the master answer , " -PRON- have serve -PRON- faithfully and honestly . as the service be , so shall the reward be . " and -PRON- give han a piece of gold as big as -PRON- head . han pull -PRON- handkerchief out of -PRON- pocket , wrap up the lump in -PRON- , put -PRON- on -PRON- shoulder , and set out on the way home . as -PRON- go on , always put one leg before the other , -PRON- see a horseman trot quickly and merrily by on a lively horse . 
 " ah , " say han quite loud , " what a fine thing -PRON- be to ride . there -PRON- sit as on a chair , never stumble over a stone , save -PRON- shoe , and make -PRON- way without even know -PRON- . " 
 the rider , who have hear -PRON- , stop and call out , " hey there , han , then why be -PRON- go on foot ? " 
 " i must , " answer -PRON- , " for i have this lump to carry home . -PRON- be true that -PRON- be gold , but i can not hold -PRON- head straight for -PRON- , and -PRON- hurt -PRON- shoulder . " 
 " i will tell -PRON- what , " say the rider . " let 's trade . i will give -PRON- -PRON- horse , and -PRON- can give -PRON- -PRON- lump . " 
 " with all -PRON- heart , " say han . " but i can tell -PRON- , -PRON- will be drag along with -PRON- . " 
 the rider get down , take the gold , and help han up , then give -PRON- the bridle tight in -PRON- hand and say , " if -PRON- want to go fast , -PRON- must click -PRON- tongue and call out , ' jup , jup . ' " 
 han be heartily delight as -PRON- sit upon the horse and ride away so bold and free . after a little while -PRON- think that -PRON- ought to go faster , and -PRON- begin to click with -PRON- tongue and call out , " jup , jup . " the horse start a fast trot , and before han know where -PRON- be , -PRON- be throw off and lie in a ditch which separate the field from the highway . the horse would have escape if -PRON- have not be stop by a peasant , who be come along the road and drive a cow before -PRON- . 
 han pull -PRON- together and stand up on -PRON- leg again , but -PRON- be vexed , and say to the peasant , " -PRON- be a poor joke , this riding , especially when one get hold of a mare like this , that kick and throw one off , so that one have a chance of break one 's neck . never again will i mount -PRON- . now i like -PRON- cow , for one can walk quietly behind -PRON- , and moreover have one 's milk , butter , and cheese every day without fail . what would i not give to have such a cow ? " 
 " well , " say the peasant , " if -PRON- would give -PRON- so much pleasure , i do not mind trade the cow for the horse . " han agree with the great delight , and the peasant jump upon the horse and ride quickly away . 
 han drive -PRON- cow quietly before -PRON- , and think over -PRON- lucky bargain . " if only i have a morsel of bread -- and that can hardly fail -PRON- -- i can eat butter and cheese with -PRON- as often as i like . if i be thirsty , i can milk -PRON- cow and drink the milk . my goodness , what more can i want ? " 
 when -PRON- come to an inn -PRON- stop , and to celebrate -PRON- good fortune , -PRON- eat up everything -PRON- have with -PRON- -- -PRON- dinner and supper -- and all -PRON- have , and with -PRON- last few farthing have half a glass of beer . then -PRON- drive -PRON- cow onwards in the direction of -PRON- mother 's village . 
 as noon approach , the heat grow more oppressive , and han find -PRON- upon a moor which would take at least another hour to cross . -PRON- feel very hot , and -PRON- tongue stick to the roof of -PRON- mouth with thirst . " i can find a cure for this , " think han . " i will milk the cow now and refresh -PRON- with the milk . " -PRON- tie -PRON- to a wither tree , and as -PRON- have no pail , -PRON- put -PRON- leather cap underneath , but try as -PRON- would , not a drop of milk come . and because -PRON- be work in a clumsy way , the impatient beast at last give -PRON- such a blow on -PRON- head with -PRON- hind foot , that -PRON- fall to the ground , and for a long time do not know where -PRON- be . by good fortune a butcher just then come along the road with a pushcart , in which lie a young pig . 
 " what sort of a trick be this ? " -PRON- cry , and help good han up . han tell -PRON- what have happen . 
 the butcher give -PRON- -PRON- flask and say , " take a drink and refresh -PRON- . the cow will certainly give no milk . -PRON- be an old beast . at the good -PRON- be only fit for the plow , or for the butcher . " 
 " well , well , " say han , as -PRON- stroke -PRON- hair down on -PRON- head . " who would have think -PRON- ? certainly -PRON- be a fine thing when one can slaughter a beast like that for oneself . what meat one have ! but i do not care much for beef , -PRON- be not juicy enough for -PRON- . but to have a young pig like that ! -PRON- taste quite different , and there be sausage as well . " 
 " listen , han , " say the butcher . " to do -PRON- a favor , i will trade , and will let -PRON- have the pig for the cow . " 
 " god reward -PRON- for -PRON- kindness , " say han as -PRON- give up the cow . the pig be unbound from the cart , and the cord by which -PRON- be tie be put in -PRON- hand . han go on , think to -PRON- how everything be go just as -PRON- wish . if anything troublesome happen to -PRON- , -PRON- be immediately set right . 
 presently -PRON- be join by a lad who be carry a fine white goose under -PRON- arm . -PRON- greet one another , and han begin to tell of -PRON- good luck , and how -PRON- have always make such good trade . the boy tell -PRON- that -PRON- be take the goose to a christening feast . " just heft -PRON- , " -PRON- add , take hold of -PRON- by the wing . " feel how heavy -PRON- be . -PRON- have be fatten up for the last eight week . anyone who bite into -PRON- after -PRON- have be roast will have to wipe the fat from both side of -PRON- mouth . " 
 " yes , " say han , heft -PRON- with one hand , " -PRON- weigh a lot , but -PRON- pig be not so bad either . " 
 meanwhile the lad look suspiciously from one side to the other , and shake -PRON- head . " look here , -PRON- say at last . " -PRON- may not be all right with -PRON- pig . in the village through which i pass , the mayor -PRON- have just have one steal out of -PRON- sty . i fear -- i fear that -PRON- have get hold of -PRON- there . -PRON- have send out some people and -PRON- would be a bad business if -PRON- catch -PRON- with the pig . at the very least , -PRON- would be shut up in the dark hole . 
 good han be terrify . " for goodness ' sake , " -PRON- say . " help -PRON- out of this fix . -PRON- know more about this place than i do . take -PRON- pig and leave -PRON- -PRON- goose . " 
 " i be take a risk , " answer the lad , " but i do not want to be the cause of -PRON- get into trouble . " so -PRON- take the cord in -PRON- hand , and quickly drive the pig down a bypath . good han , free from care , go homewards with the goose under -PRON- arm . 
 " when i think about -PRON- properly , " -PRON- say to -PRON- , " i have even gain by the trade . first there be the good roast meat , then the quantity of fat which will drip from -PRON- , and which will give -PRON- goose fat for -PRON- bread for a quarter of a year , and lastly the beautiful white feather . i will have -PRON- pillow stuff with -PRON- , and then indeed i shall go to sleep without be rock . how glad -PRON- mother will be ! " 
 as -PRON- be go through the last village , there stand a scissor grinder with -PRON- cart , as -PRON- wheel whir -PRON- sing , 
 " yes , " answer the scissor grinder , " this trade have a golden foundation . a real grinder be a man who as often as -PRON- put -PRON- hand into -PRON- pocket find gold in -PRON- . but where do -PRON- buy that fine goose ? " 
 " i do not buy -PRON- , but trade -PRON- pig for -PRON- . " 
 " and the pig ? " 
 " i get -PRON- for a cow . " 
 " and the cow ? " 
 " i get -PRON- for a horse . " 
 " and the horse ? " 
 " for that i give a lump of gold as big as -PRON- head . " 
 " and the gold ? " 
 " well , that be -PRON- wage for seven year ' service . " 
 " -PRON- have know how to look after -PRON- each time , " say the grinder . " if -PRON- can only get on so far as to hear the money jingle in -PRON- pocket whenever -PRON- stand up , -PRON- will have make -PRON- fortune . " 
 " how shall i manage that ? " say han . 
 " -PRON- must become a grinder , as i be . nothing particular be need for -PRON- but a grindstone . everything else take care of -PRON- . i have one here . -PRON- be certainly a little worn , but -PRON- ne not give -PRON- anything for -PRON- but -PRON- goose . will -PRON- do -PRON- ? " 
 " how can -PRON- ask ? " answer han . " i shall be the lucky fellow on earth . if i have money whenever i put -PRON- hand in -PRON- pocket , why should i ever worry again ? " and -PRON- hand -PRON- the goose and receive the grindstone in exchange . 
 " now , " say the grinder , pick up an ordinary heavy stone that lie nearby , " here be another good stone for -PRON- as well , which -PRON- can use to hammer on and straighten -PRON- old nail . carry -PRON- along with -PRON- and take good care of -PRON- . " 
 han load -PRON- with the stone , and go on with a contented heart , -PRON- eye shin with joy . " i must have be bear with lucky skin , " -PRON- cry . " everything i want happen to -PRON- just as if i be a sunday 's child . " 
 meanwhile , as -PRON- have be on -PRON- leg since daybreak , -PRON- begin to feel tired . hunger also torment -PRON- , for in -PRON- joy at the bargain by which -PRON- get the cow -PRON- have eat up all -PRON- store of food at once . at last -PRON- could only go on with great difficulty , and be force to stop every minute . the stone , too , weigh -PRON- down dreadfully , and -PRON- could not help think how nice -PRON- would be if -PRON- would not have to carry -PRON- just then . 
 -PRON- creep like a snail until -PRON- come to a well in a field , where -PRON- think that -PRON- would rest and refresh -PRON- with a cool drink of water . in order that -PRON- may not damage the stone in sit down , -PRON- lay -PRON- carefully by -PRON- side on the edge of the well . then -PRON- sit down on -PRON- , and be about to bend over and drink , when -PRON- slip , push against the stone , and both of -PRON- fall into the water . when han see -PRON- with -PRON- own eye sink to the bottom , -PRON- jump for joy , and then kneel down , and with tear in -PRON- eye thank god for have show -PRON- this favor also , and deliver -PRON- in so good a way , and without -PRON- have any need to reproach -PRON- , from those heavy stone which have be the only thing that trouble -PRON- . 
 " no one under the sun be as fortunate as i be , " -PRON- cry out . with a light heart and free from every burden -PRON- now run on until -PRON- be at home with -PRON- mother . 

 old sultan 

 -PRON- wife , who feel pity for the faithful animal , answer , " -PRON- have serve -PRON- so long , and be so faithful , that -PRON- may well give -PRON- -PRON- keep . " 
 " what ? " say the man . " -PRON- be not very bright .   -PRON- do not have a tooth leave in -PRON- mouth , and no thief be afraid of -PRON- . -PRON- can go now .   if -PRON- have serve -PRON- , -PRON- have eat well for -PRON- . " 
 the poor dog , who be lie stretch out in the sun not far off , hear everything , and be sorry that tomorrow be to be -PRON- last day .   -PRON- have a good friend , the wolf , and -PRON- creep out in the evening into the forest to -PRON- , and complain of the fate that await -PRON- . 
 " listen , kinsman , " say the wolf , " be of good cheer . i will help -PRON- out of -PRON- trouble .   i have think of something .   tomorrow , early in the morning , -PRON- master be go with -PRON- wife to make hay , and -PRON- will take -PRON- little child with -PRON- , for no one will be leave behind in the house . while -PRON- be at work -PRON- lie the child behind the hedge in the shade . -PRON- lie down there too , just as if -PRON- want to guard -PRON- .   then i will come out of the wood , and carry off the child .   -PRON- must run swiftly after -PRON- , as if -PRON- would take -PRON- away from -PRON- .   i will let -PRON- fall , and -PRON- will take -PRON- back to -PRON- parent , who will think that -PRON- have rescue -PRON- , and will be far too grateful to do -PRON- any harm . on the contrary , -PRON- will be treat royally , and -PRON- will never let -PRON- want for anything again . " 
 this idea please the dog , and -PRON- be carry out just as plan .   the father scream when -PRON- see the wolf run across the field with -PRON- child , but when old sultan bring -PRON- back , -PRON- be full of joy , and stroke -PRON- and say , " not a hair of -PRON- shall be hurt . -PRON- shall eat free bread as long as -PRON- live . " 
 and to -PRON- wife -PRON- say , " go home at once and make old sultan some bread soup that -PRON- will not have to bite . and bring the pillow from -PRON- bed .   i will give -PRON- to -PRON- to lie on .   from then on old sultan be as well off as -PRON- could possibly wish . 
 soon afterwards the wolf visit -PRON- , and be pleased that everything have succeed so well .   " but , kinsman , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- will just close one eye if , when i have a chance , i carry off one of -PRON- master 's fat sheep . " 
 " do n't count on that , " answer the dog .   " i will remain true to -PRON- master . i can not agree to that . " 
 the wolf think that this be not speak in earnest , and -PRON- creep up in the night to take away the sheep . but the farmer , to whom the faithful sultan have tell the wolf 's plan , be wait for -PRON- and comb -PRON- hair cruelly with a flail . the wolf have to flee , but -PRON- cry out to the dog , " just wait , -PRON- scoundrel . -PRON- will regret this . " 
 the next morning the wolf send the boar to challenge the dog to come out into the forest and settle the affair . old sultan could find no one to be -PRON- second but a cat with only three leg , and as -PRON- go out together the poor cat limp along , stretch -PRON- tail upward with pain . 
 the wolf and -PRON- friend be already at the appoint place , but when -PRON- see -PRON- enemy come , -PRON- think that -PRON- be bring a saber with -PRON- , for -PRON- mistake the cat 's outstretched tail for one .   and when the poor animal hop on three leg , -PRON- think that each time -PRON- be pick up a stone to throw at -PRON- .   then -PRON- take fright . the wild boar creep into the underbrush and the wolf jump up a tree . 
 as the dog and the cat approach , -PRON- wonder why no one be to be see .   the wild boar , however , have not be able to hide -PRON- completely in the leaf . -PRON- ear be still stick out .   while the cat be look cautiously about , the boar wiggle -PRON- ear , and the cat , who think -PRON- be a mouse , jump on -PRON- and bite down hard .   the boar jump up scream loudly , " the guilty one be up in the tree . " 
 the dog and cat look up and see the wolf , who be ashamed for have show such fear , and who then make peace with the dog . 


 the old grandfather and -PRON- grandson 

 -PRON- son and -PRON- son 's wife be disgust with this , so finally -PRON-   make the old grandfather sit in the corner behind the stove , where -PRON-   give -PRON- -PRON- food in an earthenware bowl , and not enough at that . -PRON- sit   there look sadly at the table , and -PRON- eye grow moist . one day -PRON-   shake hand could not hold the bowl , and -PRON- fall to the ground and   break . the young woman scold , but -PRON- say not a word . -PRON- only sob .   then for a few heller -PRON- buy -PRON- a wooden bowl and make -PRON- eat from   -PRON- . 
 once when -PRON- be all sit there , the little grandson of four   year push some piece of wood together on the floor . 
 " what be -PRON- make ? " ask -PRON- father . 
 " oh , -PRON- be make a little trough for -PRON- and mother to eat from when -PRON- be   big . " 
 the man and the woman look at one another and then begin to cry . -PRON-   immediately bring the old grandfather to the table , and always let -PRON-   eat there from then on . and if -PRON- spill a little , -PRON- do not say a   thing . 

 the singing , spring lark 

 the old one want pearl , the second one want diamond , but the third one say , " father dear , i would like a singing , spring lark . " 
 the father say , " yes , if i can get -PRON- , -PRON- shall have -PRON- . " then kiss all three , -PRON- set forth . 
 now when the time have come for -PRON- to return home , -PRON- have buy pearl and diamond for the two old one , but -PRON- have search everywhere in vain for a singing , spring lark for the young one . this make -PRON- very sad , for -PRON- be -PRON- favorite child . 
 -PRON- path lead -PRON- through a forest , in the middle of which there be a splendid castle . near the castle there stand a tree , and at the very top of the tree -PRON- see a singing , spring lark . 
 " aha , -PRON- be just what i have be look for , " -PRON- say happily , then tell -PRON- servant to climb up and catch the little creature . 
 but as -PRON- approach the tree , a lion jump up from beneath -PRON- , shake -PRON- , and roar until the leaf on the tree tremble . " i will eat up anyone who try to steal -PRON- singing , spring lark ! " -PRON- cry . 
 the man say , " i do not know that the bird belong to -PRON- . i will make amend for -PRON- wrong and ransom -PRON- with a large sum of money . just spare -PRON- life . " 
 the lion say , " nothing can save -PRON- unless -PRON- will promise to give -PRON- that which first meet -PRON- upon -PRON- arrival at home . if -PRON- will do that , i will grant -PRON- -PRON- life , and -PRON- shall have the bird for -PRON- daughter as well . " 
 the man hesitate , say , " that could be -PRON- young daughter . -PRON- love -PRON- the most , and always run to meet -PRON- when i return home . " 
 the servant , however , be frightened and say , " why must -PRON- be -PRON- daughter that meet -PRON- ? -PRON- could also be a cat or a dog . " 
 then the man let -PRON- be persuade , take the singing , spring lark , and promise to give the lion whatev should first meet -PRON- at home . 
 when -PRON- reach home and enter -PRON- house , the first one who meet -PRON- be none other than -PRON- young and dear daughter . -PRON- come run up , kiss and hug -PRON- , and when -PRON- see that -PRON- have bring with -PRON- a singing , spring lark , -PRON- be beside -PRON- with joy . 
 the father , however , could not be glad , but instead begin to cry , say , " -PRON- dear child , i pay dearly for that little bird . to get -PRON- i have to promise -PRON- to a wild lion , and when -PRON- have -PRON- -PRON- will tear -PRON- to piece and eat -PRON- up . " then -PRON- tell -PRON- everything that have happen , and beg -PRON- not to go there , come what may . 
 but -PRON- console -PRON- , say , " dear father , -PRON- promise must be keep . i will go there and appease the lion , so that i can return safely to -PRON- . " 
 the next morning -PRON- have the way point out to -PRON- , take leave , and in good spirit walk into the wood . 
 now the lion be an enchanted prince . by day -PRON- be a lion , and all -PRON- people become lion with -PRON- , but by night -PRON- have -PRON- natural human form . 
 on -PRON- arrival -PRON- be kindly receive and lead into the castle . when night come , the lion be a handsome man , and -PRON- wedding be celebrate with splendor . -PRON- live happily together , remain awake by night , and sleeping by day . 
 one day -PRON- come and say , " tomorrow there will be a feast at -PRON- father 's house , because -PRON- old sister be get marry . if -PRON- would like to go , -PRON- lion will take -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- say yes , that -PRON- would like to see -PRON- father again , and -PRON- go there , accompany by the lion . 
 there be great joy when -PRON- arrive , for -PRON- all believe that -PRON- have be tear to piece by the lion , and be no longer alive . but -PRON- tell -PRON- what a handsome husband -PRON- have , and how well off -PRON- be . -PRON- stay until the wedding be over , and then go back into the wood . 
 when the second daughter get marry , and -PRON- be again invite to the wedding , -PRON- say to the lion , " this time i do not want to be alone . -PRON- must come with -PRON- . " 
 the lion , however , say that that would be too dangerous for -PRON- , for if a ray from a burn light be to fall on -PRON- there , -PRON- would be transform into a dove , and would have to fly with dove for seven year . 
 " oh , " -PRON- say , " do come with -PRON- . i will protect -PRON- , and guard -PRON- from all light . " 
 so -PRON- go together , take -PRON- little child with -PRON- as well . 
 -PRON- have a room build there , so strong and thick that no ray of light could penetrate -PRON- . -PRON- be to sit inside -PRON- when the wedding light be light . however , the door be make of green wood which split , leave a little crack that no one notice . 
 the wedding be celebrate with splendor , but when the procession return from the church with all -PRON- torch and light pass by this room , a ray of light no wide than a hair touch the prince , and -PRON- be transform in an instant . and when -PRON- come in look for -PRON- , -PRON- do not see -PRON- , but a white dove be sit there . 
 the dove say to -PRON- , " for seven year i must fly about into the world . every seven step i will let fall a drop of red blood and a white feather . these will show -PRON- the way , and if -PRON- follow this trail -PRON- can redeem -PRON- . " 
 then the dove fly out the door , and -PRON- follow -PRON- , and every seven step a drop of red blood and a little white feather fall down show -PRON- the way . 
 thus -PRON- go further and further into the wide world . -PRON- neither look aside nor rest . when the seven year be almost past , -PRON- rejoice , think that -PRON- would soon be redeem , but -PRON- be far from -PRON- . 
 one day when -PRON- be thus walk onward , no little feather and no drop of red blood fall , and when -PRON- raise -PRON- eye the dove have disappear . 
 then -PRON- think , " human can not help -PRON- now , " so -PRON- climb up to the sun , and say , " -PRON- shine into every crack , and over every peak . have -PRON- not see a little white dove fly ? " 
 " no , " say the sun , " i have not see -PRON- , but i will give -PRON- a little chest . open -PRON- if -PRON- be in great need . " 
 then -PRON- thank the sun and go on until evening come and the moon be shin . -PRON- then ask the moon , " -PRON- shine all night , across all the field and wood . have -PRON- not see a little white dove fly ? " 
 " no , " say the moon , i have not see -PRON- , but i will give -PRON- an egg . break -PRON- open if -PRON- be in great need . " 
 then -PRON- thank the moon and go on until the night wind come up and blow against -PRON- . -PRON- say to -PRON- , " -PRON- blow over all the tree and under all the leaf . have -PRON- not see a little white dove fly . " 
 " no , " say the night wind , " i have not see -PRON- , but i will ask the three other wind . perhaps -PRON- have see -PRON- . " 
 the east wind and the west wind come , and have see nothing , but the south wind say , " i have see the white dove . -PRON- have fly to the red sea . there -PRON- have become a lion again , for the seven year be over , and the lion be fight there with a serpent . however , the serpent be an enchanted princess . " 
 then the night wind say to -PRON- , " i will give -PRON- some advice . go to the red sea . on the right bank be some tall reed . count -PRON- , cut off the eleventh one , and strike the serpent with -PRON- . then the lion will be able to subdue -PRON- , and both will then regain -PRON- human body . after that look around and -PRON- will see the griffin which live near the red sea . climb onto -PRON- back with -PRON- beloved , and the bird will carry -PRON- home across the sea . here be a nut for -PRON- . when -PRON- be above the middle of the sea , drop the nut . -PRON- will immediately sprout upward , and a tall nut tree will grow out of the water , upon which the griffin can rest . if -PRON- be not able to rest , -PRON- would not be strong enough to carry -PRON- across . if -PRON- forget to drop the nut , -PRON- will let the two of -PRON- fall into the sea . " 
 then -PRON- go there , and find everything just as the night wind have say . -PRON- count the reed by the sea , cut off the eleventh one , strike the serpent with -PRON- , and the lion subdue -PRON- . immediately -PRON- both regain -PRON- human body . however , when the princess who have be a serpent be free from the enchantment , -PRON- take the youth by the arm , mount the griffin , and carry -PRON- away with -PRON- . 
 there stand the poor girl who have wander so far and be forsake again . -PRON- sit down and cry . at last , however , -PRON- take courage and say , " i will continue on as far as the wind blow and as long as the cock crow , until i find -PRON- . " and -PRON- go on a long , long way , until at last -PRON- come to the castle where both of -PRON- be live together . there -PRON- hear that a feast be to be hold soon , at which -PRON- be to be marry . 
 -PRON- say , " god will still help -PRON- , " and open the little chest that the sun have give -PRON- . inside be a dress that glisten like the sun -PRON- . -PRON- take -PRON- out and put -PRON- on , then go up into the castle , where everyone , even the bride -PRON- , look at -PRON- with astonishment . 
 the bride like the dress so well that -PRON- think -PRON- could be -PRON- wedding dress , and -PRON- ask if -PRON- be for sale . 
 " not for money or property , " answer the girl , " but for flesh and blood . " 
 the bride ask what -PRON- mean by that . -PRON- say , " let -PRON- sleep one night in the room where the bridegroom sleep . " 
 the bride do not want to allow this , but -PRON- want very much to have the dress , so at last -PRON- consent . however , -PRON- order a servant to give the prince a sleeping - potion . 
 that night after the youth be already asleep -PRON- be lead into -PRON- room . -PRON- sit down on the bed and say , " i have follow -PRON- for seven year . i have be to the sun and the moon and the four wind and have ask about -PRON- , and i have help -PRON- against the serpent . will -PRON- , then , forget -PRON- entirely ? " 
 however , the prince be so sound asleep that -PRON- only seem to -PRON- like the wind be rustle outside in the fir tree . 
 when morning break -PRON- be lead out again , and -PRON- have to give up the golden dress . 
 -PRON- grow sad because even that have not help , and -PRON- go out into a meadow , and sit down and cry . while -PRON- be sit there -PRON- think of the egg which the moon have give -PRON- . -PRON- break -PRON- open , and out come   a mother hen with twelve little chick , all of gold . -PRON- run about peep , then creep back under the old hen 's wing . -PRON- be the most beautiful thing to be see in all the world . then -PRON- get up , and drive -PRON- across the meadow before -PRON- , until the bride look out of the window . -PRON- like the little chick so much that -PRON- immediately come down and ask if -PRON- be for sale . 
 " not for money or property , but for flesh and blood . let -PRON- sleep one more night in the room where the bridegroom sleep . " 
 the bride say yes , intend to cheat -PRON- as -PRON- have do the previous evening 
 however , when the prince go to bed -PRON- ask -PRON- servant what the murmuring and rustle in the night have be . then the servant tell -PRON- everything -- that -PRON- have be force to give -PRON- a sleep - potion because a poor girl secretly have sleep in -PRON- room , and that -PRON- be suppose to give -PRON- another sleeping - potion tonight . 
 the prince say , " pour the drink out next to the bed . " 
 that night -PRON- be again lead in , and when -PRON- begin to relate how sadly -PRON- have fare , -PRON- immediately recognize -PRON- dear wife by -PRON- voice , jump up and cry , " now i be redeem for sure . -PRON- be as if i have be in a dream , for the strange princess have bewitch -PRON- , cause -PRON- to forget -PRON- . but god have remove the spell from -PRON- just in time . " 
 then -PRON- both leave the castle secretly in the night , for -PRON- fear the princess 's father , who be a sorcerer . -PRON- mount the griffin , which carry -PRON- across the red sea , and when -PRON- be half way , -PRON- drop the nut . immediately a tall nut tree grow up , and the bird rest on -PRON- , and then carry -PRON- home , where -PRON- find -PRON- child , who have grow tall and handsome , and from that time -PRON- live happily until -PRON- die . 

 the goose - girl 

 -PRON- likewise assign to -PRON- a chambermaid , who be to ride with -PRON- , and deliver -PRON- into the hand of the bridegroom . each receive a horse for the journey . the princess 's horse be call falada , and could speak . when the hour of departure have come , the old mother go into -PRON- bedroom , take a small knife and cut -PRON- finger with -PRON- until -PRON- bleed . then -PRON- hold out a small white cloth and let three drop of blood fall into -PRON- . -PRON- give -PRON- to -PRON- daughter , say , " take good care of these . -PRON- will be of service to -PRON- on -PRON- way . " 
 thus -PRON- sorrowfully take leave of one another . the princess put the cloth into -PRON- bosom , mount -PRON- horse , and set forth for -PRON- bridegroom . after -PRON- have ride for a while -PRON- feel a burn thirst , and say to -PRON- chambermaid , " dismount , and take -PRON- cup which -PRON- have bring with -PRON- for -PRON- , and get -PRON- some water from the brook , for i would like a drink . " 
 " if -PRON- be thirsty , " say the chambermaid , " get off -PRON- horse -PRON- , and lie down near the water and drink . i will not be -PRON- servant . " 
 so in -PRON- great thirst the princess dismount , bent down over the water in the brook and drank ; and -PRON- be not allow to drink out of the golden cup . then -PRON- say , " oh , lord , " and the three drop of blood answer , " if -PRON- mother know this , -PRON- heart would break in two . " 
 but the king 's daughter be humble . -PRON- say nothing and mount -PRON- horse again . -PRON- ride some mile further . the day be warm , the sun beat down , and -PRON- again grow thirsty . when -PRON- come to a stream of water , -PRON- again call to -PRON- chambermaid , " dismount , and give -PRON- some water in -PRON- golden cup , " for -PRON- have long ago forget the girl 's evil word . 
 but the chambermaid say still more haughtily , " if -PRON- want a drink , get -PRON- -PRON- . i will not be -PRON- servant . " 
 then in -PRON- great thirst the king 's daughter dismount , bent over the flow water , weep , and say , " oh , lord , " and the drop of blood again reply , " if -PRON- mother know this , -PRON- heart would break in two . " 
 as -PRON- be thus drink , lean over the stream , the cloth with the three drop of blood fall from -PRON- bosom and float away with the water , without -PRON- take notice of -PRON- , so great be -PRON- concern . however , the chambermaid what happen , and -PRON- rejoice to think that -PRON- now have power over the bride , for by lose the drop of blood , the princess have become weak and powerless . 
 when -PRON- want to mount -PRON- horse again , the one that be call falada , the chambermaid say , " i belong on falada . -PRON- belong on -PRON- nag , " and the princess have to accept -PRON- . 
 then with many harsh word the chambermaid order the princess to take off -PRON- own royal clothing and put on the chambermaid 's shabby clothe . and in the end the princess have to swear under the open heaven that -PRON- would not say one word of this to anyone at the royal court . if -PRON- have not take this oath , -PRON- would have be kill on the spot . falada see everything , and remember -PRON- well . 
 the chambermaid now climb onto falada , and the true bride onto the bad horse , and thus -PRON- travel onwards , until finally -PRON- arrive at the royal palace . there be great rejoicing over -PRON- arrival , and the prince run ahead to meet -PRON- , then lift the chambermaid from -PRON- horse , think -PRON- be -PRON- bride . 
 -PRON- be lead upstairs , while the real princess be leave stand below . then the old king look out of the window and see -PRON- wait in the courtyard , and notice how fine and delicate and beautiful -PRON- be , so at once -PRON- go to the royal apartment , and ask the bride about the girl -PRON- have with -PRON- who be stand down below in the courtyard , and who -PRON- be . 
 " i pick -PRON- up on -PRON- way for a companion . give the girl some work to do , so -PRON- will not stand idly by . " 
 however , the old king have no work for -PRON- , and know of nothing else to say but , " i have a little boy who tend the goose . -PRON- can help -PRON- . " the boy be call krdchen ( little conrad ) , and the true bride have to help -PRON- tend goose . 
 soon afterwards the false bride say to the young king , " dear husband , i beg -PRON- to do -PRON- a favor . " 
 -PRON- answer , " i will do so gladly . " 
 " then send for the knacker , and have the head of the horse which i ride here cut off , for -PRON- anger -PRON- on the way . " in truth , -PRON- be afraid that the horse may tell how -PRON- have behave toward the king 's daughter . 
 thus -PRON- happen that faithful falada have to die . the real princess hear about this , and -PRON- secretly promise to pay the knacker a piece of gold if -PRON- would perform a small service for -PRON- . in the town there be a large dark gateway , through which -PRON- have to pass with the goose each morning and evening . would -PRON- be so good as to nail falada 's head beneath the gateway , so that -PRON- may see -PRON- again and again ? 
 the knacker 's helper promise to do that , and cut off the head , and nail -PRON- securely beneath the dark gateway . 
 early in the morning , when -PRON- and conrad drive out -PRON- flock beneath this gateway , -PRON- say in pass , " alas , falada , hang there ! " 
 then the head answer : 
 then -PRON- go still further out of the town , drive -PRON- goose into the country . and when -PRON- come to the meadow , -PRON- sit down and unbind -PRON- hair which be of pure gold . conrad see -PRON- , be delighted how -PRON- glisten , and want to pluck out a few hair . then -PRON- say : 
 then such a strong wind come up that -PRON- blow conrad 's hat across the field , and -PRON- have to run after -PRON- . when -PRON- come back , -PRON- be already finish comb and put up -PRON- hair , so -PRON- could not get even one strand . so conrad become angry , and would not speak to -PRON- , and thus -PRON- tend the goose until evening , and then -PRON- go home . 
 the next morning when -PRON- be drive the goose out through the dark gateway , the maiden say , " alas , falada , hang there ! " 
 falada answer : 
 -PRON- sit down again in the field and begin comb out -PRON- hair . when conrad run up and try to take hold of some , -PRON- quickly say : 
 then the wind blow , take the hat off -PRON- head and far away . conrad have to run after -PRON- , and when -PRON- come back , -PRON- have already put up -PRON- hair , and -PRON- could not get a single strand . then -PRON- tend the goose until evening . 
 that evening , after -PRON- have return home , conrad go to the old king and say , " i will not tend goose with that girl any longer . " 
 " why not ? " ask the old king . 
 " oh , because -PRON- anger -PRON- all day long . " 
 then the old king order -PRON- to tell what -PRON- be that -PRON- do to -PRON- . conrad say , " in the morning when -PRON- pas beneath the dark gateway with the flock , there be a horse 's head on the wall , and -PRON- say to -PRON- , ' alas , falada , hang there ! ' and the head reply : 
 then conrad go on to tell what happen at the goose pasture , and how -PRON- have to chase -PRON- hat . 
 the old king order -PRON- to drive -PRON- flock out again the next day . as soon as morning come , -PRON- -PRON- sit down behind the dark gateway , and hear how the girl speak with falada 's head . then -PRON- follow -PRON- out into the country and hide -PRON- in a thicket in the meadow . there -PRON- soon see with -PRON- own eye the goose - girl and the goose - boy bring -PRON- flock , and how after a while -PRON- sit down and take down -PRON- hair , which glisten brightly . soon -PRON- say : 
 then come a blast of wind and carry off conrad 's hat , so that -PRON- have to run far away , while the maiden quietly go on combing and braid -PRON- hair , all of which the king observe . then , quite unseen , -PRON- go away , and when the goose - girl come home in the evening , -PRON- call -PRON- aside , and ask why -PRON- do all these thing . 
 " i be not allow to tell -PRON- , nor can i reveal -PRON- sorrow to any human being , for i have swear under the open heaven not to do so , and if i have not so swear , i would have be kill . " 
 -PRON- urge -PRON- and leave -PRON- no peace , but -PRON- could get nothing from -PRON- . finally -PRON- say , " if -PRON- will not tell -PRON- anything , then tell -PRON- sorrow to the iron stove there , " and -PRON- go away . 
 so -PRON- creep into the iron stove , and begin to cry sorrowfully , pour out -PRON- whole heart . -PRON- say , " here i sit , abandon by the whole world , although i be the daughter of a king . a false chambermaid force -PRON- to take off -PRON- royal clothe , and -PRON- have take -PRON- place with -PRON- bridegroom . now i have to do common work as a goose - girl . if -PRON- mother this , -PRON- heart would break in two . " 
 the old king be stand outside listen by the stovepipe , and -PRON- hear what -PRON- say . then -PRON- come back inside , and ask -PRON- to come out of the stove . then -PRON- dress -PRON- in royal clothe , and -PRON- be marvelous how beautiful -PRON- be . 
 the old king summon -PRON- son and reveal to -PRON- that -PRON- have a false bride who be only a chambermaid , but that the true one be stand there , the one who have be a goose - girl . the young king rejoice with all -PRON- heart when -PRON- see -PRON- beauty and virtue . a great feast be make ready to which all the people and all good friend be invite . 
 at the head of the table sit the bridegroom with the king 's daughter on one side of -PRON- , and the chambermaid on the other . however , the chambermaid be deceive , for -PRON- do not recognize the princess in -PRON- dazzling attire . after -PRON- have eat and drunk , and be in a good mood , the old king ask the chambermaid as a riddle , what punishment a person deserve who have deceive -PRON- master in such and such a manner , then tell the whole story , ask finally , " what sentence do such a person deserve ? " 
 the false bride say , " -PRON- deserve no good fate than to be strip stark naked , and put in a barrel that be stud inside with sharp nail . two white horse should be hitch to -PRON- , and -PRON- should drag -PRON- along through one street after another , until -PRON- be dead . " 
 " -PRON- be the one , " say the old king , " and -PRON- have pronounce -PRON- own sentence . thus shall -PRON- be do to -PRON- . " 
 after the sentence have be carry out , the young king marry -PRON- true bride , and both of -PRON- rule over -PRON- kingdom in peace and happiness . 

 the young giant 

 while -PRON- be sit there a large giant come over the mountain towards -PRON- .   " do -PRON- see that bogeyman ? " say the father , in order to frighten the little one into be good .   " -PRON- be come to get -PRON- . " 
 now with -PRON- long leg the giant reach the furrow in only a few step . with two finger -PRON- carefully pick up the little thumbling , look at -PRON- , then walk away with -PRON- without say a word .   the father stand there so frightened that -PRON- could not utter a sound .   -PRON- believe that -PRON- child be lose , and that -PRON- would never see -PRON- again as long as -PRON- live . 
 the giant take the child home and let -PRON- suckle at -PRON- breast , and the thumbling grow large and strong like a giant .   after two year have pass , the old giant take -PRON- into the wood in order to test -PRON- . 
 -PRON- say , " pull out a switch from over there . "   the boy be so strong already that -PRON- pull a young tree up by the root .   the giant thought that -PRON- could do good and take -PRON- back home and suckle -PRON- for two more year .   when -PRON- take -PRON- into the wood to test -PRON- this time , -PRON- be so much strong that -PRON- be able to pull up an old tree . 
 this be still not good enough for the giant , and -PRON- suckle -PRON- for yet another two year , take -PRON- into the wood , and say , " now pull out a decent switch for once . "   this time the boy pull the thick oak tree out of the ground .   when -PRON- crack the boy laugh . 
 when the old giant see this , -PRON- say , " that be good enough .   -PRON- have pass the test . "   and -PRON- take -PRON- back to the field where -PRON- find -PRON- . 
 the father be plow again , and the young giant walk up to -PRON- and say , " father , see what a man -PRON- son have become . " 
 the peasant be frightened and say , " no , -PRON- be not -PRON- son .   i do not want -PRON- . get away from -PRON- . " 
 " of course i be -PRON- son .   just let -PRON- plow .   i can do -PRON- just as well as -PRON- can , even good . " 
 " no , -PRON- be not -PRON- son .   -PRON- can not plow .   get away from -PRON- . "   -PRON- be so afraid of the large man that -PRON- let go of the plow and walk to the edge of the field .   the boy pick up the handle to plow , but -PRON- push so hard with -PRON- one hand that the plow sink deep into the earth .   the peasant could not watch this , and call to -PRON- , " if -PRON- insist on plow , then do not push down so hard , or -PRON- will ruin the field . " 
 then the boy unhitch the horse and pull the plow -PRON- , say , " go on home and tell mother that -PRON- should cook up a big plate of something to eat .   in the meantime , -PRON- will tear around the field . " 
 the peasant go home and tell -PRON- wife to fix something to eat , and -PRON- cook up a large dinner , and the boy plow the field :   two full acre all by -PRON- .   then -PRON- hitch -PRON- to the harrow and harrow the entire thing , pull two harrow at the same time .   when -PRON- be finish -PRON- go into the wood , pull up two oak tree , lay -PRON- on -PRON- shoulder , then put a harrow on each end and a horse on each end as well , and carry the whole thing to -PRON- parent ' home like a bundle of straw . 
 when -PRON- walk into the farmyard , -PRON- mother do not recognize -PRON- and ask , " who be this terrible large man ? " 
 the peasant say , " that be -PRON- son . " 
 -PRON- say , " no , this could never be -PRON- son .   -PRON- do not have such a large child .   -PRON- be a little thing .   go away .   -PRON- do not want -PRON- . " 
 the boy say nothing .   -PRON- pull -PRON- horse into the stall , give -PRON- oat and hay , and put everything in order .   when -PRON- be finish -PRON- go into the house , sit down on the bench , and say , " mother , -PRON- would like to eat .   will -PRON- be ready soon ? " 
 -PRON- say , " yes , " and do not dare to contradict -PRON- .   -PRON- bring in two very large plate , more than -PRON- and -PRON- husband could have eat in an entire week .   -PRON- eat -PRON- all and ask if -PRON- do not have more .   " no , " -PRON- say .   " that be all that -PRON- have . " 
 " that be only a taste .   i have to have more . " 
 not dare to contradict -PRON- , -PRON- go out and fill a large hog cauldron and put -PRON- on the fire , and when -PRON- be do -PRON- bring -PRON- in . 
 " that be a nice little bit , " -PRON- say , and eat the whole thing , but -PRON- still be not enough to satisfy -PRON- hunger .   then -PRON- say , " father , i see that -PRON- will never be full if i stay here with -PRON- .   if -PRON- can get -PRON- an iron rod that be so strong i can not break -PRON- against -PRON- knee , then -PRON- will go away again . " 
 the peasant be happy to hear this .   -PRON- hitch -PRON- two horse to -PRON- wagon and drive to the blacksmith and get a rod so large and thick that the two horse could barely pull -PRON- .   the boy hold -PRON- against -PRON- knee and -- crash ! -- -PRON- break -PRON- in two like a bean pole , and throw -PRON- away .   then the peasant hitch up four horse and bring back a rod that be so large and thick that the four horse could barely pull -PRON- . 
 the son pick up this one as well , crack -PRON- in two against -PRON- knee , toss -PRON- aside , and say , " father , this one be of no use to -PRON- .   hitch up more horse and get -PRON- a strong staff . "   so the father hitch up eight horse and fetch one so large and thick that the eight horse could barely pull -PRON- .   when the son receive this one , -PRON- break a little piece from the top of -PRON- and say , " father , i see that -PRON- can not get -PRON- a proper staff , so -PRON- will just go away anyhow . " 
 so -PRON- go on -PRON- way , claim to be a journeyman blacksmith .   -PRON- come to a village where a smith live who be a real cheapskate .   -PRON- would never give anything to anyone , and always want everything for -PRON- .   the young giant walk into -PRON- smithy and ask -PRON- if -PRON- could use a journeyman . 
 " yes , " answer the smith , look at -PRON- and think what a strong fellow -PRON- be , someone who could really earn -PRON- keep .   " what kind of wage do -PRON- want ? " 
 " i do not want any wage at all , " say the young giant .   " but at the end of every two week when the other journeyman receive -PRON- pay , just let -PRON- hit -PRON- twice .   and -PRON- will have to be able to take -PRON- . " 
 the cheapskate be only too happy with this arrangement , for -PRON- think that -PRON- would save -PRON- a lot of money . 
 the next morning the new journeyman be to have the first turn at the anvil .   the master bring out a glow rod , and the young giant knock -PRON- into two piece with -PRON- first blow , at the same time drive the anvil so deep into the ground that -PRON- could not get -PRON- back out again .   this make the cheapskate angry , and -PRON- say , " i can not use -PRON- here .   -PRON- blow be too rough .   what do -PRON- need for pay ? " 
 the young giant say , " just to give -PRON- a little kick , nothing more . "   -PRON- lift up -PRON- foot and give -PRON- a kick that send -PRON- fly over four load of hay .   then -PRON- take the thick iron rod from the smithy to use as a walk stick , and go on -PRON- way . 
 sometime later -PRON- come to an estate and ask the overseer if -PRON- could use a chief farmhand . 
 " yes , " say the overseer .   " -PRON- look like a strong fellow who know how to work .   what kind of yearly wage do -PRON- want . " 
 the young giant reply that the only pay -PRON- want be to be able to give the overseer three blow , and that -PRON- would have to be able to stand -PRON- .   the overseer be satisfied with this , for -PRON- too be a cheapskate . 
 the next morning the worker be suppose to go to work in the wood .   the other be already up , but the young giant be still lie in bed .   one of -PRON- shout to -PRON- , " get up now .   -PRON- be time to go to the wood , and -PRON- have to come along too . " 
 -PRON- reply , coarsely and sarcastically , " go on without -PRON- .   -PRON- will be finish before any of -PRON- . " 
 the other report to the overseer that the new chief farmhand be still lie in bed and would not go to the wood with -PRON- .   the overseer tell -PRON- to wake -PRON- up again and tell -PRON- to harness the horse . 
 the young giant answer the same as before , " go on without -PRON- .   -PRON- will be finish before any of -PRON- . "   -PRON- sleep two more hour , then finally get out of bed , get two shovel full of pea from the barn , cook -PRON- , eat -PRON- at -PRON- leisure , and when -PRON- have finish all this , -PRON- harness the horse and drive -PRON- to the wood .   just before the wood , the road pass through a hollow .   -PRON- drive -PRON- wagon through the hollow , then halt the horse . -PRON- walk behind the wagon and pile up such a stack of tree and branch that no horse would ever be able to get through . 
 -PRON- have just arrive in the wood when -PRON- meet the other on -PRON- way home with -PRON- loaded wagon .   -PRON- say to -PRON- , " drive on .   -PRON- will be home before -PRON- be . " 
 -PRON- drive a little further into the wood , rip two of the large tree out of the ground , load -PRON- onto -PRON- wagon , and turn around .   when -PRON- come to the pile of tree and branch , the other be just stand there , unable to get through . 
 -PRON- say , " see , if -PRON- have stay with -PRON- , -PRON- could have go straight home , and -PRON- would be able to sleep an extra hour . " 
 -PRON- start to drive through , but -PRON- horse could not make -PRON- , so -PRON- unhitch -PRON- and load -PRON- on top of the wagon . then -PRON- take hold of the tongue and pull the wagon through as easily as if -PRON- have be load with feather .   when -PRON- be on the other side \ -PRON- call out , " see , i get through before -PRON- do , " and -PRON- drive off , leave -PRON- stand there .   when -PRON- arrive at the farmyard -PRON- pick up a tree with one hand , show -PRON- to the overseer , and say , " how be this for a measure stick ? " 
 then the overseer say to -PRON- wife , " this chief farmhand be all right .   even when -PRON- sleep in , -PRON- arrive home before the other . " 
 -PRON- work for the overseer for one year .   when the year have pass and the other worker receive -PRON- wage , -PRON- say that -PRON- be also time for -PRON- payment .   the overseer become frightened that -PRON- be go to have to receive -PRON- blow , and -PRON- ask -PRON- to spare -PRON- .   if -PRON- would do so , the overseer -PRON- would become chief farmhand , and the young giant could become overseer . 
 " no , " reply the young giant .   " i do not want to be overseer .   i be chief farmhand and will remain chief farmhand .   i only want to deliver what be promise -PRON- . " 
 the overseer offer to give -PRON- anything that -PRON- ask for , but there be no way out .   the chief farmhand insist on the original agreement . 
 the overseer do not know what else to do , so -PRON- ask for an extension of two week , and then call all of -PRON- clerk together and ask for -PRON- advice .   -PRON- think for a long time , and finally conclude that no one be safe in the presence of the chief farmhand . -PRON- could strike a person dead just like one would crush a mosquito . 
 -PRON- should be tell to climb into the well to clean -PRON- . then -PRON- would roll the large millstone that be lie nearby into the well onto -PRON- head . after that -PRON- would never again see the light of day . 
 the overseer be delighted with this plan , and the chief farmhand agree to climb into the well .    as soon as -PRON- be at the bottom of the well , -PRON- roll the large millstone , in on top of -PRON- .   everyone think that -PRON- have crush -PRON- head , but -PRON- call out , " chase the chicken away from the well .   -PRON- be scratch in the sand , and throw little grain into -PRON- eye until i can not see . " 
 the overseer call out , " shoo !   shoo ! " as though -PRON- be chase the chicken away .   when the chief farmhand be finish , -PRON- climb out and say , " look at this nice necklace . "   -PRON- be wear the millstone around -PRON- neck . 
 the chief farmhand want to collect -PRON- wage now , but the overseer ask for another extension of fourteen day . -PRON- summon the clerk , and -PRON- advise -PRON- to send the farmhand to the haunt mill to grind grain during the night . no human have ever come from there alive . this advice please the overseer , and that same evening -PRON- summon the farmhand and tell -PRON- to haul eight bushel of grain to the mill and to grind -PRON- during the night .   -PRON- be in need of the flour . 
 so the chief farmhand go to the loft and put two bushel of grain in -PRON- right pocket and two in -PRON- left pocket . then -PRON- load four bushel of grain into a large sack which -PRON- carry over -PRON- shoulder . -PRON- take all this to the haunt mill . 
 the miller tell -PRON- that during the daytime -PRON- could grind the grain very well , but at nighttime the mill be haunt and anyone who go inside during the night be find dead the next morning . 
 the farmhand say , " i will do all right . just leave -PRON- alone and go to bed now . " 
 then -PRON- go inside the mill and dump out the grain . when -PRON- begin to strike eleven -PRON- go into the sitting area and sit on a bench . -PRON- have just eat a little when the door open and a large table come inside . on the table be wine , roast meat , and many good thing to eat . everything be by -PRON- ; no one have carry -PRON- in . then the chair move -PRON- into place , but no person be there . then suddenly -PRON- see finger handle the knife and fork and place food onto the plate , but -PRON- could see nothing else . -PRON- be hungry , and -PRON- could see food , so -PRON- sit down and eat alongside the unseen one , and everything taste very good . when -PRON- be full , and the other have clean off -PRON- plate as well , suddenly all the light be blow out . -PRON- hear this very distinctly . 
 sit there in total darkness , something give -PRON- a slap in the face . 
 -PRON- say , " if -PRON- do that again , -PRON- will give the same thing back to -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- receive a second slap , and -PRON- strike back . thus -PRON- continue the entire night , but -PRON- be never afraid , always strike back fiercely . at daybreak everything cease . 
 when the miller get up , -PRON- look in on the farmhand to see how -PRON- be , and be amazed to see that -PRON- be still alive . 
 the farmhand say , " i receive some slap , but i also give out some slap , and have plenty to eat . " 
 the miller be delighted and say that the mill be now free of -PRON- curse , and -PRON- offer -PRON- a large sum of money as a reward . 
 but the farmhand say , " i do not want any money ; i have enough . " 
 then -PRON- load -PRON- flour onto -PRON- back and return home . -PRON- tell the overseer -PRON- have complete the task and now want the wage that -PRON- have agree upon . 
 the overseer be beside -PRON- with fear . not know what else to do , -PRON- walk back and forth in -PRON- room until sweat drip from -PRON- face . -PRON- open the window for some fresh air .   before -PRON- know what have happen , the young giant kick -PRON- from behind .   -PRON- fly so far through the air , that no one have see -PRON- since . 
 then the young giant turn to the overseer 's wife and say that -PRON- would have to receive the next blow .   " no , -PRON- would never be able to withstand -PRON- , " -PRON- say , and open a window , because of the sweat drip from -PRON- face .   -PRON- give -PRON- a kick as well , and be light , -PRON- fly even higher than -PRON- husband . 
 " come to -PRON- , " -PRON- call to -PRON- . 
 " no , -PRON- come to -PRON- , " -PRON- call back .   " i can not come to -PRON- . " 
 and -PRON- soar through the air , neither of -PRON- able to get to the other one .   i do not know if -PRON- be still soar .   but as for the young giant , -PRON- pick up -PRON- iron rod and go on -PRON- way . 


 the fisherman and -PRON- wife 

 " well , " say the man , " there be no need to say more . i can certainly let a   fish swim away who know how to talk . " 
 with that -PRON- put -PRON- back into the clear water , and the flounder   disappear to the bottom , leave a long trail of blood behind -PRON- . 
 then the fisherman get up and go home to -PRON- wife in the filthy shack . 
 " husband , " say the woman , " do n't -PRON- catch anything today ? " 
 " no , " say the man . " i catch a flounder , but -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- be an   enchanted prince , so i let -PRON- swim away . " 
 " do n't -PRON- ask for anything first ? " say the woman . 
 " no , " say the man . " what should i have ask for ? " 
 " oh , " say the woman . " -PRON- be terrible live in this shack . -PRON- stink and   be filthy . -PRON- should have ask for a little cottage for -PRON- . go back and   call -PRON- . tell -PRON- that -PRON- want to have a little cottage . -PRON- will surely   give -PRON- to -PRON- . " 
 " oh , " say the man . " why should i go back there ? " 
 " look , " say the woman , " -PRON- do catch -PRON- , and then -PRON- let -PRON- swim   away . -PRON- will surely do this for -PRON- . go right now . " 
 the man do not want to go , but neither do -PRON- want to oppose -PRON- wife , so   -PRON- go back to the sea . 
 when -PRON- arrive there -PRON- be no longer clear , but yellow and green . -PRON-   stand there and say : 
 " oh , " say the man , " i do catch -PRON- , and now -PRON- wife say that i really   should have ask for something . -PRON- do not want to live in a filthy   shack any longer . -PRON- would like to have a cottage . " 
 " go home , " say the flounder . " -PRON- already have -PRON- . " 
 the man go home , and -PRON- wife be stand in the door of a cottage , and   -PRON- say to -PRON- , " come in . see , now be not this much good ? " 
 there be a little front yard , and a beautiful little parlor , and a   bedroom where -PRON- bed be stand , and a kitchen , and a dining room .   everything be beautifully furnish and supply with tin and brass   utensil , just as -PRON- should be . and outside there be a little yard with   chicken and duck and a garden with vegetable and fruit . 
 " look , " say the woman . " be n't this nice ? " 
 " yes , " say the man . " this be quite enough . -PRON- can live here very well . " 
 " -PRON- will think about that , " say the woman . 
 then -PRON- eat something and go to bed . 
 everything go well for a week or two , and then the woman say , " listen ,   husband . this cottage be too small . the yard and the garden be too   little . the flounder could have give -PRON- a large house . i would like to   live in a large stone palace . go back to the flounder and tell -PRON- to give   -PRON- a palace . " 
 " oh , wife , " say the man , " the cottage be good enough . why would -PRON- want   to live in a palace ? " 
 " i know why , " say the woman . " now -PRON- just go . the flounder can do that . " 
 " now , wife , the flounder have just give -PRON- the cottage . i do not want to go   back so soon . -PRON- may make the flounder angry . " 
 " just go , " say the woman . " -PRON- can do -PRON- , and -PRON- will not mind do -PRON- . just   go . " 
 the man 's heart be heavy , and -PRON- do not want to go . -PRON- say to -PRON- ,   " this be not right , " but -PRON- go anyway . 
 when -PRON- arrive at the sea the water be purple and dark blue and gray and   dense , and no longer green and yellow . -PRON- stand there and say : 
 " oh , " say the man sadly , " -PRON- wife want to live in a stone palace . " 
 " go home . -PRON- be already stand before the door , " say the flounder . 
 then the man go -PRON- way , think -PRON- be go home , but when -PRON-   arrive , stand there be a large stone palace . -PRON- wife be stand on   the stairway , about to enter . 
 take -PRON- by the hand , -PRON- say , " come inside . " 
 -PRON- go inside with -PRON- . inside the palace there be a large front hallway   with a marble floor . numerous servant open up the large door for -PRON- .   the wall be all white and covered with beautiful tapestry . in the room   there be chair and table of pure gold . crystal chandelier hang from   the ceiling . the room and chamber all have carpet . food and the very   good wine overload the table until -PRON- almost collapse . outside the   house there be a large courtyard with the very good carriage and stall   for horse and cow . furthermore there be a magnificent garden with the   most beautiful flower and fine fruit tree and a pleasure forest a good   half mile long , with elk and deer and hare and everything that anyone   could possibly want . 
 " now , " say the woman , " be n't this nice ? " 
 " oh , yes " say the man . " this be quite enough . -PRON- can live in this   beautiful palace and be satisfied . " 
 " -PRON- 'll think about -PRON- , " say the woman . " let 's sleep on -PRON- . " and with that   -PRON- go to bed . 
 the next morning the woman wake up first . -PRON- be just daylight , and from   -PRON- bed -PRON- could see the magnificent landscape before -PRON- . -PRON- husband   be just start to stir when -PRON- poke -PRON- in the side with -PRON- elbow   and say , " husband , get up and look out the window . look , could not -PRON- be   king over all this land ? " 
 " oh , wife , " say the man , " why would -PRON- want to be king ? i do not want to   be king . " 
 " well , " say the woman , " even if -PRON- do not want to be king , i want to be   king . " 
 " oh , wife , " say the man , " why do -PRON- want to be king ? i do not want to   tell -PRON- that . " 
 " why not ? " say the woman , " go there immediately . i must be king . " 
 so the man , sadden because -PRON- wife want to be king , go back . 
 " this be not right , not right at all , " think the man . -PRON- do not want to   go , but -PRON- go anyway . 
 when -PRON- arrive at the sea -PRON- be dark gray , and the water heave up from   below and have a foul smell . -PRON- stand there and say : 
 " oh , " say the man , " -PRON- want to be king . " 
 " go home . -PRON- be already king , " say the flounder . 
 then the man go home , and when -PRON- arrive there , the palace have become   much large , with a tall tower and magnificent decoration . sentry stand   outside the door , and there be so many soldier , and drum , and   trumpet . when -PRON- go inside everything be of pure marble and gold with   velvet cover and large golden tassel . then the door to the great hall   open up , and there be the entire court . -PRON- wife be sit on a high   throne of gold and diamond . -PRON- be wear a large golden crown , and in   -PRON- hand be a scepter of pure gold and precious stone . on either side of   -PRON- there stand a line of maid - in - waiting , each one a head short than   the other . 
 " oh , wife , be -PRON- now king ? " 
 " yes , " -PRON- say , " now i be king . " 
 -PRON- stand and look at -PRON- , and after thus look at -PRON- for a while -PRON-   say , " wife , -PRON- be very nice that -PRON- be king . now -PRON- do not have to wish   for anything else . " 
 " no , husband , " -PRON- say , become restless . " time be on -PRON- hand . i can not   stand -PRON- any longer . go to the flounder . i be king , but now i must become   emperor . " 
 " oh , wife " say the man , " why do -PRON- want to become emperor ? " 
 " husband , " -PRON- say , " go to the flounder . i want to be emperor . " 
 " oh , wife , " say the man , " -PRON- can not make -PRON- emperor . i can not tell the   flounder to do that . there be only one emperor in the realm . the flounder   can not make -PRON- emperor . -PRON- can not do that . " 
 " what ! " say the woman . " i be king , and -PRON- be -PRON- husband . be -PRON- go ?   go there immediately . if -PRON- can make -PRON- king then -PRON- can make -PRON- emperor .   i want to be and have to be emperor . go there immediately . " 
 so -PRON- have to go . as -PRON- go on -PRON- way the frightened man think to   -PRON- , " this be not go to end well . to ask to be emperor be shameful .   the flounder be go to get tired of this . " 
 with that -PRON- arrive at the sea . the water be all black and dense and   boil up from within . a strong wind blow over -PRON- that curdle the   water . -PRON- stand there and say : 
 " oh , flounder , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- wife want to become emperor . " 
 " go home , " say the flounder . " -PRON- be already emperor . " 
 then the man go home , and when -PRON- arrive there , the entire palace be   make of polished marble with alabaster statue and golden decoration .   soldier be march outside the gate , blow trumpet and beat   tympani and drum . inside the house , baron and count and duke be   walk around like servant . -PRON- open the door for -PRON- , which be   make of pure gold . -PRON- go inside where -PRON- wife be sit on a throne   make of one piece of gold a good two mile high , and -PRON- be wear a   large golden crown that be three yard high , all set with diamond and   carbuncle . in the one hand -PRON- have a scepter , and in the other the   imperial orb . bodyguard be stand in two row at -PRON- side : each one   small than the other , begin with the large giant and end with   the little dwarf , who be no large than -PRON- little finger . many prince   and duke be stand in front of -PRON- . 
 the man go and stand among -PRON- and say , " wife , be -PRON- emperor now ? " 
 " yes , " -PRON- say , " i be emperor . " 
 -PRON- stand and look at -PRON- , and after thus look at -PRON- for a while , -PRON-   say , " wife , -PRON- be very nice that -PRON- be emperor . " 
 " husband , " -PRON- say . " why be -PRON- stand there ? now that i be emperor ,   and i want to become pope . " 
 " oh , wife ! " say the man . " what do -PRON- not want ? there be only one pope in   all christendom . -PRON- can not make -PRON- pope . " 
 " husband , " -PRON- say , " i want to become pope . go there immediately . i must   become pope this very day . " 
 " no , wife , " -PRON- say , " i can not tell -PRON- that . -PRON- will come to no good .   that be too much . the flounder can not make -PRON- pope . " 
 " husband , what nonsense ! " say the woman . " if -PRON- can make -PRON- emperor , then   -PRON- can make -PRON- pope as well . go there immediately . i be emperor , and -PRON-   be -PRON- husband . be -PRON- go ? " 
 then the frightened man go . -PRON- feel sick all over , and -PRON- knee and   leg be shake , and the wind be blow over the land , and cloud fly   by as the darkness of evening fall . leaf blow from the tree , and the   water roar and boil as -PRON- crash onto the shore . in the distance -PRON-   could see ship , shoot distress signal as -PRON- toss and turn on   the wave . there be a little blue in the middle of the sky , but on all   side -PRON- have turn red , as in a terrible lightning storm . full of despair   -PRON- stand there and say : 
 " oh , " say the man , " -PRON- want to become pope . " 
 " go home , " say the flounder . " -PRON- be already pope . " 
 then -PRON- go home , and when -PRON- arrive there , there be a large church   surround by nothing but palace . -PRON- force -PRON- way through the crowd .   inside everything be illuminate with thousand and thousand of light ,   and -PRON- wife be clothe in pure gold and sit on a much high throne .   -PRON- be wear three large golden crown . -PRON- be surround with   church - like splendor , and at -PRON- side there be two bank of candle .   the large be as thick and as tall as the large tower , down to the   small kitchen candle . and all the emperor and king be kneel   before -PRON- kiss -PRON- slipper . 
 " wife , " say the man , give -PRON- a good look , " be -PRON- pope now ? " 
 " yes , " -PRON- say , " i be pope . " 
 then -PRON- stand there look at -PRON- , and -PRON- be as if -PRON- be look into   the bright sun . after -PRON- have look at -PRON- for a while -PRON- say , " wife , -PRON-   be good that -PRON- be pope ! " 
 -PRON- stand there as stiff as a tree , neither stir nor move . 
 then -PRON- say , " wife , be satisfied now that -PRON- be pope . there be nothing   else that -PRON- can become . " 
 " i have to think about that , " say the woman . 
 then -PRON- both go to bed , but -PRON- be not satisfied . -PRON- desire would   not let -PRON- sleep . -PRON- keep think what -PRON- want to become next . 
 the man sleep well and soundly , for -PRON- have run about a lot during the day ,   but the woman could not sleep at all , but toss and turn from one side   to the other all night long , always think about what -PRON- could become ,   but -PRON- could not think of anything . 
 then the sun be about to rise , and when -PRON- see the early light of dawn   -PRON- sit up in bed and watch through the window as the sun come up . 
 " aha , " -PRON- think . " could not i cause the sun and the moon to rise ? " 
 " husband , " -PRON- say , poke -PRON- in the rib with -PRON- elbow , " wake up and   go back to the flounder . i want to become like god . " 
 the man , who be still mostly asleep , be so startled that -PRON- fall out of   bed . -PRON- think that -PRON- have misunderstand -PRON- , so , rub -PRON- eye , -PRON-   say , " wife , what do -PRON- say ? " 
 " husband , " -PRON- say , " i can not stand -PRON- when i see the sun and the moon   rise , and i can not cause -PRON- to do so . i will not have a single hour of   peace until i -PRON- can cause -PRON- to rise . " 
 -PRON- look at -PRON- so gruesomely that -PRON- shudder . 
 " go there immediately . i want to become like god . " 
 " oh , wife , " say the man , fall on -PRON- knee before -PRON- , " the flounder   can not do that . -PRON- can make -PRON- emperor and pope , but i beg -PRON- , be   satisfied and remain pope . " 
 anger fall over -PRON- . -PRON- hair fly wildly about -PRON- head . tear open -PRON-   bodice -PRON- kick -PRON- with -PRON- foot and shout , " i can not stand -PRON- ! i   can not stand -PRON- any longer ! go there immediately ! " 
 -PRON- put on -PRON- trouser and run off like a madman . 
 outside such a storm be rag that -PRON- could hardly stand on -PRON- foot .   house and tree be blow over . the mountain be shake , and   boulder be roll from the cliff into the sea . the sky be as black   as pitch . there be thunder and lightning . in the sea there be great   black wave as high as church tower and mountain , all cap with crown   of white foam . 
 " oh , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- want to become like god . " 
 " go home . -PRON- be sit in -PRON- filthy shack again . " 
 and -PRON- be sit there even today . 


 the elf 

 one evening shortly before christma , just before go to bed , and have   already cut out a number of shoe , -PRON- say to -PRON- wife , " why do not -PRON- stay   up tonight and see who be give -PRON- this help hand . " 
 -PRON- wife agree to this and light a candle . then -PRON- hide -PRON- behind   some clothe that be hang in a corner of the room . at midnight two   cute little naked man appear . sit down at the workbench , -PRON- pick   up the cut - out piece and work so unbelievable quickly and nimbly that   the amazed shoemaker could not take -PRON- eye from -PRON- . -PRON- do not stop   until -PRON- have finish everything . -PRON- place the complete shoe on the   workbench , then quickly run away . 
 the next morning the wife say , " the little man have make -PRON- wealthy . -PRON-   must show -PRON- -PRON- thank . -PRON- be run around with nothing on ,   freezing . do -PRON- know what ? i want to sew some shirt , jacket ,   undershirt , and trouser for -PRON- , and knit a pair of stocking for each   of -PRON- , and -PRON- should make a pair of shoe for each of -PRON- . " 
 the husband say , " i agree , " and that evening , when everything be   finish , -PRON- set the present out instead of the unfinished work . then   -PRON- hide -PRON- in order to see what the little man would do . at   midnight -PRON- come skip up , intend to start work immediately . when   -PRON- see the little clothe instead of the cut - out leather , -PRON- at first   seem puzzled , but then delight . -PRON- quickly put -PRON- on , then   stroke the beautiful clothe on -PRON- body -PRON- sing : 

 then -PRON- hop and dance about , jump over chair and bench .   finally -PRON- dance out of the house . -PRON- never return , but the   shoemaker prosper , succeed in everything that -PRON- do . 


 at first the girl do not know what -PRON- should do , but finally -PRON-   convince -PRON- to accept . -PRON- would not be right , -PRON- say , to decline such   an invitation . 
 three elf come and lead -PRON- to a hollow mountain where the little people   live . everything there be small , but more ornate and splendid than can   be describe . the new mother be lie in a bed of ebony decorate with   pearl button . the cover be embroider with gold . the cradle be make   of ivory , and the bathtub of gold . the girl stand in as godmother , and   then want to go back home , but the elf ask -PRON- fervently to stay   with -PRON- for three day . -PRON- agree to do so , and the time pass    pleasantly and joyfully . the little people do everything to make -PRON-   happy . 
 finally -PRON- want to return home . -PRON- fill -PRON- pocket with gold and   lead -PRON- outside the mountain . -PRON- arrive home . want to begin -PRON- work ,   -PRON- pick up the broom that be still stand in the corner and start   to sweep . then some strange people come out of the house and ask -PRON- who   -PRON- be and what -PRON- be do there . -PRON- be not three day , as -PRON-   think , that -PRON- have spend in the mountain with the little man , but   rather seven year . in the meantime -PRON- former employer have die . 



 and -PRON- begin laugh about -PRON- . when -PRON- laugh , a band of little elf   suddenly appear . -PRON- bring the rightful child , set -PRON- on the hearth ,   and take the changel away . 

 the six swan 

 " oh , yes , -PRON- majesty , " -PRON- answer , " i can indeed . however , there be   one condition , and if -PRON- do not fulfill -PRON- , -PRON- will never get out of   these wood , and will die here of hunger . " 
 " what sort of condition be -PRON- ? " ask the king . 
 " i have a daughter , " say the old woman , " who be as beautiful as anyone   -PRON- could find in all the world , and who well deserve to become -PRON-   wife . if -PRON- will make -PRON- -PRON- queen , i will show -PRON- the way out of the   wood . " 
 the king be so frightened that -PRON- consent , and the old woman lead -PRON- to   -PRON- cottage , where -PRON- daughter be sit by the fire . -PRON- receive the   king as if -PRON- have be expect -PRON- . -PRON- see that -PRON- be very beautiful ,   but in spite of this -PRON- do not like -PRON- , and -PRON- could not look at -PRON-   without secretly shudder . 
 after -PRON- have lift the girl onto -PRON- horse , the old woman show -PRON- the   way , and the king arrive again at -PRON- royal castle , where the wedding be   celebrate . 
 the king have be marry before , and by -PRON- first wife -PRON- have seven   child , six boy and one girl . -PRON- love -PRON- more than anything else in   the world . 
 fear that the stepmother may not treat -PRON- well , even do -PRON- harm ,   -PRON- take -PRON- to a secluded castle which stand in the middle of a forest .   -PRON- be so well hide , and the way be so difficult to find , that -PRON-   -PRON- would not have find -PRON- , if a wise woman have not give -PRON- a ball   of magic yarn . whenever -PRON- throw -PRON- down in front of -PRON- , -PRON- would unwind   -PRON- and show -PRON- the way . 
 however , the king go out to -PRON- dear child so often that the queen   take notice of -PRON- absence . -PRON- be curious and want to know what -PRON- be   do out there all alone in the wood . -PRON- give a large sum of money to   -PRON- servant , and -PRON- reveal the secret to -PRON- . -PRON- also tell -PRON-   about the ball of yarn which could point out the way all by -PRON- . 
 -PRON- do not rest until -PRON- discover where the king keep the ball of   yarn . then -PRON- make some little shirt of white silk . have learn the   art of witchcraft from -PRON- mother , -PRON- sew a magic charm into each one   of -PRON- . then one day when the king have ride out hunting , -PRON- take the   little shirt and go into the wood . the ball of yarn show -PRON- the   way . 
 the child , see that someone be approach from afar , think that   -PRON- dear father be come to -PRON- . full of joy , -PRON- run to meet -PRON- .   then -PRON- throw one of the shirt over each of -PRON- , and when the shirt   touch -PRON- body -PRON- be transform into swan , and -PRON- fly away   over the wood . 
 the queen go home very pleased , believe that -PRON- have get rid of -PRON-   stepchildren . however , the girl have not run out with -PRON- brother , and the   queen know nothing about -PRON- . 
 the next day the king go to visit -PRON- child , but -PRON- find no one   there but the girl . 
 " where be -PRON- brother ? " ask the king . 
 " oh , dear father , " -PRON- answer , " -PRON- have go away and leave -PRON- alone . " 
 then -PRON- tell -PRON- that from -PRON- window -PRON- have see how -PRON- brother have   fly away over the wood as swan . -PRON- show -PRON- the feather that -PRON-   have drop into the courtyard , and which -PRON- have gather up . 
 the king mourn , but -PRON- do not think that the queen have do this wicked   deed . fear that the girl would be steal away from -PRON- as well , -PRON-   want to take -PRON- away with -PRON- , but -PRON- be afraid of -PRON- stepmother and   beg the king to let -PRON- stay just this one more night in the castle in   the wood . 
 the poor girl think , " i can no longer stay here . i will go and look for   -PRON- brother . " 
 and when night come -PRON- run away and go straight into the wood . -PRON-   walk the whole night long without stop , and the next day as well ,   until -PRON- be too tired to walk any further . 
 then -PRON- see a hunter 's hut and go inside . -PRON- find a room with six   little bed , but -PRON- do not dare to get into one of -PRON- . instead -PRON-   crawl under one of -PRON- and lie down on the hard ground where -PRON-   intend to spend the night . 
 the sun be about to go down when -PRON- hear a rush sound and see six   swan fly in through the window . land on the floor , -PRON-   blow on one   another , and blow all -PRON- feather off . then -PRON- swan - skin come off   just like shirt . the girl look at -PRON- and recognize -PRON- brother . -PRON-   be happy and crawl out from beneath the bed . the brother be no less   happy to see -PRON- little sister , but -PRON- happiness do not last long . 
 " -PRON- can not stay here , " -PRON- say to -PRON- . " this be a robber ' den . if -PRON-   come home and find -PRON- , -PRON- will murder -PRON- . " 
 " ca n't -PRON- protect -PRON- ? " ask the little sister . 
 " no , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- can take off -PRON- swan - skin for only a quarter   hour each evening . only during that time do -PRON- have -PRON- human form . after   that -PRON- be again transform into swan . " 
 cry , the little sister say , " can -PRON- not be redeem ? " 
 " alas , no , " -PRON- answer . " the condition be too difficult . -PRON- would   not be allow to speak or to laugh for six year , and in that time -PRON-   would have to sew together six little shirt from aster for -PRON- . and if a   single word be to come from -PRON- mouth , all -PRON- work would be lose . " 
 after the brother have say this , the quarter hour be over , and -PRON- fly   out the window again as swan . 
 nevertheless , the girl firmly resolve to redeem -PRON- brother , even if -PRON-   should cost -PRON- -PRON- life . -PRON- leave the hunter 's hut , go to the middle of   the wood , seat -PRON- in a tree , and there spend the night . the next   morning -PRON- go out and gather aster and begin to sew . -PRON- could not   speak with anyone , and -PRON- have no desire to laugh . -PRON- sit there , look   only at -PRON- work . 
 after -PRON- have already spend a long time there -PRON- happen that the king of   the land be hunt in these wood . -PRON- huntsman come to the tree where   the girl be sit . 
 -PRON- call to -PRON- , say , " who be -PRON- ? " but -PRON- do not answer . 
 " come down to -PRON- , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- will not harm -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- only shake -PRON- head . when -PRON- press -PRON- further with question , -PRON-   throw -PRON- golden necklace down to -PRON- , think that this would satisfy   -PRON- . but -PRON- do not stop , so -PRON- then throw -PRON- belt down to -PRON- , and   when this do not help , -PRON- garter , and then -- one thing at a time --   everything that -PRON- have on   and could do without , until finally -PRON- have   nothing leave but -PRON- shift . 
 the huntsmen , however , not let -PRON- be dissuade , climb the   tree , lift the girl down , and take -PRON- to the king . 
 the king ask , " who be -PRON- ? what be -PRON- do in that tree ? " 
 but -PRON- do not answer . -PRON- ask -PRON- in every language that -PRON- know , but   -PRON- remain as speechless as a fish . because -PRON- be so beautiful , the   king 's heart be touch , and -PRON- fall deeply in love with -PRON- . -PRON- put -PRON-   cloak around -PRON- , lift -PRON- onto -PRON- horse in front of -PRON- , and take   -PRON- to -PRON- castle . there -PRON- have -PRON- dressed in rich garment , and -PRON-   glisten in -PRON- beauty like bright daylight , but no one could get a word   from -PRON- . 
 at the table -PRON- seat -PRON- by -PRON- side , and -PRON- modest manner and   courtesy please -PRON- so much that -PRON- say , " -PRON- desire be to marry -PRON- , and   no one else in the world . " 
 a few day later -PRON- be marry . 
 now the king have a wicked mother who be dissatisfy with this marriage   and speak ill of the young queen . " who know , " -PRON- say , " where the girl   who can not speak come from ? -PRON- be not worthy of a king . " 
 a year later , after the queen have bring -PRON- first child into the world ,   the old woman take -PRON- away from -PRON- while -PRON- be asleep , and smear -PRON-   mouth with blood . then -PRON- go to the king and accuse -PRON- of be a   cannibal . the king could not believe this , and would not allow anyone to   harm -PRON- . -PRON- , however , sit the whole time sewing on the shirt , and   care for nothing else . 
 the next time , when -PRON- again give birth to a beautiful boy , the deceitful   mother - in - law do the same thing again , but the king could not bring   -PRON- to believe -PRON- accusation . 
 -PRON- say , " -PRON- be too pious and good to do anything like that . if -PRON- be   not speechless , and if -PRON- could defend -PRON- , -PRON- innocence would come   to light . " 
 but when the old woman steal away a newly bear child for the third time ,   and accuse the queen , who do not defend -PRON- with a single word , the   king have no choice but to bring -PRON- to justice , and -PRON- be sentence to   die by fire . 
 when the day come for the sentence to be carry out , -PRON- be also the last   day of the six year during which -PRON- have not be permit to speak or   to laugh , and -PRON- have thus deliver -PRON- dear brother from the magic   curse . the six shirt be finish . only the left sleeve of the last one   be missing . when -PRON- be lead to the stake , -PRON- lay the shirt on -PRON-   arm . stand there , as the fire be about to be light , -PRON- look   around , and six swan come fly through the air . see that -PRON-   redemption be near , -PRON- heart leap with joy . 
 the swan rush towards -PRON- , swoop down so that -PRON- could throw the   shirt over -PRON- . as soon as the shirt touch -PRON- -PRON- swan - skin fall   off , and -PRON- brother stand before -PRON- in -PRON- own body , vigorous and   handsome . however , the young be miss -PRON- left arm . in -PRON- place -PRON-   have a swan 's wing . 
 -PRON- embrace and kiss one another . then the queen go to the king , who   be greatly move , and -PRON- begin to speak , say , " dear husband , now i   may speak and reveal to -PRON- that i be innocent , and falsely accuse . " 
 then -PRON- tell -PRON- of the treachery of the old woman who have take away   -PRON- three child and hide -PRON- . 
 then to the king 's great joy -PRON- be bring forth . as a punishment , the   wicked mother - in - law be tie to the stake and burn to ash . but the   king and the queen with -PRON- six brother live many long year in   happiness and peace . 


 old hildebrand 

 one day -PRON- say to -PRON- , " listen , dear woman , -PRON- have think -PRON- through , and i know how the two of -PRON- can spend an entire day together . on wednesday tell -PRON- husband that -PRON- be sick and lie down in bed moaning and groaning . carry on like that until sunday , when in -PRON- sermon i will preach that if anyone have a sick child at home , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick sister , brother , or anyone else , then that person should make a pilgrimage to mount cuckoo in italy . there , for a kreuzer , one can get a peck of laurel leaf , and this person 's sick child , sick husband , sick wife , sick father , sick mother , sick sister , brother , or anyone else , will be heal on the spot . " 
 " i 'll do -PRON- , " say the peasant 's wife . so on wednesday -PRON- go to bed , moaning and groaning . -PRON- husband do everything for -PRON- that -PRON- could think of , but nothing help . sunday arrive , and the peasant 's wife say , " i 'm so miserable that i must be near death , but before i die , i would like to hear the sermon that the priest be go to give today . " 
 the peasant answer , " oh , -PRON- child , -PRON- can not go out . if -PRON- get up -PRON- may make -PRON- bad . look , -PRON- will go to church and pay close attention and tell -PRON- everything that the priest say . " 
 " good , " say the peasant 's wife . " go and pay close attention , and then tell -PRON- everything that -PRON- have hear . " 
 so the peasant go to church , and the priest begin to preach , say that if anyone have a sick child at home , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick sister , brother , or anyone else , then that person should make a pilgrimage to mount cuckoo in italy , where a peck of laurel leave cost one kreuzer , and this person 's sick child , sick husband , sick wife , sick father , sick mother , sick sister , brother , or anyone else , will be heal on the spot , and that anyone who may want to undertake this trip should come to -PRON- after the mass , and -PRON- would give -PRON- a sack for the laurel leave and a kreuzer . 
 no one be happy than the peasant , and immediately follow the mass -PRON- go to the priest and ask for the laurel sack and the kreuzer . then -PRON- go home , and even before go inside call out , " hurrah ! -PRON- dear wife , -PRON- be just as good as cure . the priest preach today that whoever have a sick child at home , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick sister , brother , or anyone else , then that person should make a pilgrimage to mount cuckoo in italy , where a peck of laurel leave cost one kreuzer , and this person 's sick child , sick husband , sick wife , sick father , sick mother , sick sister , brother , or anyone else , will be heal on the spot , and i get the laurel sack and the kreuzer from the priest , and be go to take off immediately , so -PRON- can get good as soon as possible . " and with that -PRON- set forth . 
 -PRON- have scarcely leave before -PRON- wife get out of bed , and the priest arrive . but let 's leave -PRON- for awhile and see what happen to the peasant . -PRON- be hurry along in order to arrive at mount cuckoo as soon as possible , when -PRON- meet a kinsman . now this kinsman be an egg man , who be just return from market , where -PRON- have sell -PRON- egg . 
 " bless -PRON- ! " say the kinsman . " where be -PRON- off to in such a hurry ? " 
 " in all eternity ! " say the peasant . " -PRON- wife have become sick , and today in the priest 's sermon i hear that if anyone have a sick child at home , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick sister , brother , or anyone else , then that person should make a pilgrimage to mount cuckoo in italy , where a peck of laurel leave cost one kreuzer , and this person 's sick child , sick husband , sick wife , sick father , sick mother , sick sister , brother , or anyone else , will be heal on the spot , and i get the laurel sack and the kreuzer from the priest , and now i be on -PRON- way . " 
 " listen , kinsman , " say the peasant 's kinsman . " do n't be so simple as to believe that . do -PRON- know what ? the priest want to spend an entire day alone with -PRON- wife . -PRON- have give -PRON- this task just to get -PRON- out from under -PRON- foot . " 
 " -PRON- ! " the peasant say . " how i would like to know if that be true ! " 
 " do -PRON- know what ? " say -PRON- kinsman , " just climb into -PRON- egg basket , and i will carry -PRON- home , and -PRON- can see for -PRON- . " 
 and that be just what happen . the peasant get into the egg basket , and -PRON- kinsman carry -PRON- home . when -PRON- arrive there , the good time have already start . the peasant 's wife have slaughter almost everything in the farmyard and have make pancake , and the priest be there with -PRON- fiddle . the kinsman knock at the door , and the peasant 's wife ask who be there . 
 " -PRON- be -PRON- , kinswoman , " say the kinsman . " can -PRON- give -PRON- shelter for the night ? i do not sell -PRON- egg at the market , so now i have to carry -PRON- back home , but -PRON- be too heavy , and i can not make -PRON- . -PRON- be already dark . " 
 " well , " say the peasant 's wife , " -PRON- have come at a very inconvenient time , but -PRON- can not be help . just sit down over there on the bench by the stove . " so the kinsman take a seat on the bench and set -PRON- pack basket down beside -PRON- . and the priest and the peasant 's wife proceed to carry on . 
 after a while the priest say , " listen , -PRON- dear woman , -PRON- be such a good singer . sing something for -PRON- . " 
 " no , " say the peasant 's wife , " i can not sing anymore . i could sing well when i be young , but that be all behind -PRON- now . " 
 " oh , " say the priest , " do sing just a little . " 
 so the peasant 's wife start to sing : 
 and the priest sing back : 
 then the kinsman chime in ( oh , i have to tell -PRON- that the peasant 's name be hildebrand ) , and sing out : 
 the peasant , from inside the basket , sing forth : 
 with that -PRON- jump from the basket , and with blow -PRON- drive the priest out of the house . 

 the water nixie 

 -PRON- give the girl tangle dirty flax to spin , and -PRON- have to fill a   bottomless barrel with water . the boy have to chop down a tree with a dull   ax , and all -PRON- get to eat be dumpling as hard as rock . 
 finally the child become so impatient , that -PRON- wait until one   sunday when the nixie be at church , and then run away . when church be   over , the nixie see that the bird have fly away , and -PRON- follow -PRON-   with long stride . 
 the child see -PRON- from afar , and the girl throw a brush behind -PRON- ,   which turn into a large brush - mountain with thousand and thousand of   spike , which the nixie have to climb over with great difficulty , but -PRON-   finally get to the other side . 
 when the child see this the boy throw a comb behind -PRON- , which   turn into a large comb - mountain with a thousand time a thousand tooth ,   but the nixie be able to keep hold of -PRON- , and finally get to the other   side . 
 then the girl throw a mirror behind -PRON- , which turn into a glass   mountain , which be so slippery , so slippery that -PRON- be impossible for   the nixie to climb over -PRON- . 
 then -PRON- think , " i will quickly go home and get -PRON- ax and chop the   glass mountain in two . " 
 however , by the time -PRON- return and have chop up the glass   mountain , the child be far away and have escape , so the water nixie   have to trudge back to -PRON- well . 

 doctor know - all 

 " certainly , " say the doctor , " in no time at all . " 
 " what do i have to do ? " ask the peasant . 
 first of all , buy -PRON- an abc - book , one that have a picture of a rooster up front . second , sell -PRON- wagon and -PRON- two oxen and buy -PRON- some clothing and other thing that doctor use . third , have -PRON- a sign paint with the word ' i be doctor know - all ' and nail -PRON- above the door to -PRON- house . " 
 the peasant do everything -PRON- be tell to do . after -PRON- have doctor a little -- but not very much -- some money be steal from a great and wealthy   nobleman . someone tell -PRON- about the doctor know - all who live in such and such a village , and who must know where the money have go . so the nobleman have -PRON- carriage hitch up , ride out to the village , and ask -PRON- if -PRON- be doctor know - all . 
 " yes , that i be . " 
 " then -PRON- must come with -PRON- and recover -PRON- steal money . " 
 " yes , but -PRON- wife grete must come along too . " 
 the nobleman agree and have -PRON- take -PRON- place in -PRON- carriage . -PRON- ride away together . 
 -PRON- arrive at the nobleman 's court just at mealtime , and the nobleman invite -PRON- to eat . 
 " yes , but include -PRON- wife grete , " -PRON- reply , and the two of -PRON- sit down behind the table . 
 when the first servant bring out a platter of fine food the peasant nudge -PRON- wife and say , " grete , that be the first one , " mean the meal 's first course . 
 however , the servant think that -PRON- mean , " that be the first thief , " and because that be indeed what -PRON- be , -PRON- take fright , and outside -PRON- say to -PRON- comrade , " the doctor know everything . -PRON- be go to go badly for -PRON- . -PRON- say that -PRON- be the first one . " 
 the second one do not want to go inside at all , but finally -PRON- have to , and when -PRON- enter , the peasant nudge -PRON- wife and say , " grete , that be the second one . " 
 this servant take fright as well , and go outside . -PRON- do not go any better for the third one . once again the peasant say , " grete , that be the third one . " 
 the fourth one bring in a covered platter , and the nobleman tell the doctor that -PRON- should demonstrate -PRON- art by guess what -PRON- contain . -PRON- be crab . the peasant look at the platter , and see no way out of -PRON- dilemma , -PRON- say to -PRON- , " oh , poor crab ! " 
 hear this , the nobleman call out , " if -PRON- know that then -PRON- must know who have the money as well ! " 
 the servant grow very fearful and motioned to the doctor to go outside . there all four of -PRON- confess to -PRON- that -PRON- have steal the money . -PRON- offer to give -PRON- all to -PRON- and a handsome sum in addition , if -PRON- would not turn -PRON- in . otherwise -PRON- would all hang . -PRON- show -PRON- where the money be hide . the doctor be satisfied with this , and -PRON- go back inside and sit down again at the table . 
 " -PRON- lord , " -PRON- say , " now i will look in -PRON- book to see where the money be hide . 
 however , the fifth servant climb into the stove in order to hear if the doctor know anything else . the doctor leaf back and forth in -PRON- book look for the picture of the rooster . not find -PRON- , -PRON- say , " i know that -PRON- be in there . come on out . " 
 the man in the stove think that the doctor be talk to -PRON- , and terrify , -PRON- jump out , say , " the man know everything ! " 
 then doctor know - all show the nobleman where the money be , but -PRON- do not tell who have steal -PRON- . thus -PRON- receive a large reward from each side and become a famous man . 

 the spirit in the glass bottle 

 " oh , " say the father sadly , " i can not give -PRON- anything more , and in   these hard time i can not earn a heller more than what -PRON-   ne for -PRON- daily bread . " 
 " father , dear , " answer the son , " do n't worry about -PRON- . if -PRON- be god 's   will everything will turn out well for -PRON- . i will do all right . " 
 when the father say -PRON- be go into the wood and earn some money by   cut cordwood , the son say , " i will go with   -PRON- and help -PRON- . " 
 " no , -PRON- son , " say the father , " -PRON- will find -PRON- too difficult . -PRON- be   not use to hard work , and will not be able to do -PRON- .   furthermore , i have only one ax and no money leave to buy another one   with . " 
 " just go to the neighbor , " answer the son . " -PRON- will lend -PRON- -PRON- ax   until i have earn enough to buy one for -PRON- . " 
 so the father borrow an ax from the neighbor , and the next morning at   daybreak -PRON- go out into the wood together .   the son help -PRON- father and be quite cheerful and full of energy . when   the sun be directly above -PRON- , the father say ,   " let -PRON- rest now and eat -PRON- noon meal . then all will go twice as well . " 
 the son pick up -PRON- bread and say , " just -PRON- rest , father . i be not   tired . i will walk about a little in the wood and look for   bird ' nest . " 
 " oh , -PRON- fool , " say the father , " why do -PRON- want to run about ? afterwards   -PRON- will be tired and no longer able to lift an arm .   stay here , and sit down beside -PRON- . " 
 but the son go into the wood , eat -PRON- bread , be very cheerful , and   look into the green branch to see if -PRON- could find a   bird 's nest . -PRON- walk to and fro until at last -PRON- come to an enormous oak   that be certainly many hundred year old , and that   five man would not have be able to span . -PRON- stand there look at -PRON- ,   and think , " many a bird must have build -PRON- nest in   that tree . " 
 then suddenly -PRON- think that -PRON- hear a voice . listen , -PRON- become aware   of someone call out with a muffled voice , " let   -PRON- out . let -PRON- out . " 
 -PRON- look around but could not see anything . then -PRON- think that the   voice be come out of the ground , so -PRON- shout ,   " where be -PRON- ? " 
 the voice answer , " i be stuck down here among the oak root . let -PRON- out .   let -PRON- out . " 
 the student begin to scrape about beneath the tree , search among the   root , until at last -PRON- find a glass bottle in a little   opening . lift -PRON- up , -PRON- hold -PRON- against the light , and then see   something shape like a frog jump up and down inside . 
 " let -PRON- out . let -PRON- out , " -PRON- cry again , and the student , think no   evil , pull the cork from the bottle . immediately a spirit   ascend from -PRON- and begin to grow . -PRON- grow so fast that within a few   moment a horrible fellow , half as big as the tree , be   stand there before the student . 
 " do -PRON- know , " -PRON- cry in an terrifying voice , " what -PRON- reward be for   have let -PRON- out ? " 
 " no , " reply the student fearlessly . " how should i know that ? " 
 " then i will tell -PRON- , " shout the spirit . " i must break -PRON- neck for   -PRON- . " 
 " -PRON- should have say so sooner , " answer the student , " for then i would   have leave -PRON- shut up inside . however , -PRON- head be   go to stay where -PRON- be until more people have be consult . " 
 " more people here , more people there , " shout the spirit . " -PRON- shall have   the reward -PRON- have earn . do -PRON- think that i   be shut up there for such a long time as a favor ? no , -PRON- be a   punishment . i be the mighty mercurius . i must break the neck   of whomsoever release -PRON- . " 
 " calm down , " answer the student . " not so fast . first i must know that   -PRON- really be shut up in that little bottle , and that   -PRON- be the right spirit . if -PRON- can indeed get inside again , then i will   believe -PRON- , and -PRON- may do with -PRON- whatsoever -PRON- want . " 
 the spirit say arrogantly , " that be an easy trick , " pull -PRON- in   and make -PRON- as thin and short as -PRON- have be before .   -PRON- then creep back into the opening and through the neck of the bottle . -PRON-   be scarcely inside when the student push the   cork back into the bottle , and throw -PRON- back where -PRON- have be among the   oak root . and thus the spirit be deceive . 
 the student be about to return to -PRON- father , but the spirit cry out   pitifully , " oh , do let -PRON- out . oh , do let -PRON- out . " 
 " no , " answer the student , " not a second time . i will not release a   person who once try to kill -PRON- , now that i have capture   -PRON- again . " 
 " if -PRON- will set -PRON- free , " cry the spirit , " i will give -PRON- so much that   -PRON- will have enough for all the day of -PRON- life . " 
 " no , " answer the student , " -PRON- would cheat -PRON- like -PRON- try to the   first time . " 
 " -PRON- be give away -PRON- own good fortune , " say the spirit . " i will not   harm -PRON- , but instead will reward -PRON- richly . " 
 the student think , " i will venture -PRON- . perhaps -PRON- will keep -PRON- word ,   and in any event -PRON- will not get the good of -PRON- . " 
 so -PRON- pull out the cork , and the spirit rise up from the bottle as   before , and extend -PRON- , become as large as a giant . 
 " now -PRON- shall have -PRON- reward , " -PRON- say , hand the student a little   rag that look just like a small bandage . -PRON- say , " if   -PRON- rub a wound with the one end , -PRON- will heal , and if -PRON- rub steel or   iron with the other end , -PRON- will turn into silver . " 
 " i have to try that , " say the student . -PRON- go to a tree , scratch the   bark with -PRON- ax , then rub -PRON- with the one end of the   bandage . -PRON- immediately close together and be heal . 
 " now -PRON- be all right , " -PRON- say to the spirit , " and -PRON- can part . " 
 the spirit thank -PRON- for have free -PRON- , and the student thank the   spirit for the present , and return to -PRON- father . 
 " where have -PRON- be run about ? " say the father . " why have -PRON-   forget -PRON- work ? i say that -PRON- would not get   anything do . " 
 " do n't be concerned , father . i will make -PRON- up . " 
 " make -PRON- up indeed , " say the father angrily . " do n't bother . " 
 " just watch , father . i will soon cut down that tree there and make -PRON-   crash . " 
 then -PRON- take -PRON- bandage , rub the ax with -PRON- , and strike a mighty blow ,   but because the iron have turn into silver , the   cut edge bent back on -PRON- . 
 " hey , father , just look what a bad ax -PRON- have give -PRON- . -PRON- be all bent out   of shape . " 
 the father be shocked and say , " oh , what have -PRON- do ! now -PRON- will have to   pay for the ax , and i do not know what with .   that be all the good i have from -PRON- work . " 
 " do n't get angry , " say the son , " i will pay for the ax . " 
 " oh , -PRON- blockhead , " cry the father , " how will -PRON- pay for -PRON- ? -PRON- have   nothing but what i give -PRON- . -PRON- have student '   trick stick in -PRON- head , but -PRON- do not know anything about chop   wood . " 
 after a little while the student say , " father , i can not work any longer   after all . let 's quit for the day . " 
 " now then , " -PRON- answer , " do -PRON- think i can stand around with -PRON- hand in   -PRON- pocket like -PRON- ? i have to go on work ,   but -PRON- may head for home . " 
 " father , i be here in these wood for the first time . i do not know -PRON- way   alone . please go with -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- anger have now subside , so the father at last let -PRON- be talk   into go home with -PRON- . 
 there -PRON- say to the son , " go and sell the damaged ax and see what -PRON- can   get for -PRON- . i will have to earn the difference , in   order to pay the neighbor . " 
 the son pick up the ax and take -PRON- into town to a goldsmith , who test   -PRON- , weigh -PRON- , and then say , " -PRON- be worth four   hundred taler . i do not have that much cash with -PRON- . " 
 the student say , " give -PRON- what -PRON- have . i will lend -PRON- the rest . " 
 the goldsmith give -PRON- three hundred taler and owe -PRON- one hundred . then   the student go home and say , " father , i   have some money . go and ask the neighbor what -PRON- want for the ax . " 
 " i already know , " answer the old man . " one taler , six groschen . " 
 " then give -PRON- two taler , twelve groschen . that be double -PRON- worth and   be plenty . see , i have more than enough money . "   then -PRON- give the father a hundred taler , say , " -PRON- shall never need   anything . live just like -PRON- want to . " 
 " -PRON- goodness , " say the old man . " where do -PRON- get all that money ? " 
 then the son tell -PRON- everything that have happen , and how by trust in   -PRON- luck -PRON- have make such a catch . with the   money that be leave -PRON- go back to the university and continue -PRON-   study , and because -PRON- could heal all wound with -PRON-   bandage -PRON- become the most famous doctor in the whole world . 


 the pack of scoundrel 

 " yes , " answer the hen . " come , let -PRON- go and have some fun together . 
 together -PRON- go up the mountain , and since -PRON- be a clear day , -PRON- stay until evening . 
 now i do not know whether -PRON- be because -PRON- have overeaten , or -PRON- be just in high spirit , but -- to make a long story short -- -PRON- do not want to go back home on foot , so the rooster have to make a little carriage out of nutshell . 
 when -PRON- be finish , the hen sit down in -PRON- and say to the rooster , " -PRON- can hitch -PRON- to -PRON- . " 
 " -PRON- be dream ! " say the rooster . " i would rather go home on foot than have -PRON- hitch up . that be not -PRON- agreement . i want to be the coachman and sit in the driver 's seat . i be not go to pull -PRON- . " 
 while -PRON- be quarrel about this , a duck come quack by . " -PRON- thief , who invite -PRON- to -PRON- nut mountain ? wait ! -PRON- will be sorry ! " and with an open beak -PRON- attack the rooster . 
 the rooster do not take this lie down . jump furiously onto the duck , -PRON- hack at -PRON- so fiercely with one of -PRON- spur that -PRON- beg for mercy , and as punishment -PRON- have to accept be hitch to the carriage . 
 so the rooster sit in the driver 's seat and be the coachman , and away -PRON- speed . 
 " run , duck ! run as fast as -PRON- can ! " 
 after -PRON- have travel a little way -PRON- meet two people on foot , a pin and a needle . 
 " stop ! stop ! " shout the pin and the needle , say that soon -PRON- would be pitch dark , and -PRON- would not be able to walk another step . moreover , the road be very dirty . -PRON- ask if -PRON- would not be able to climb inside for a little way , explain that -PRON- have be at the tailor 's tavern just outside the town gate , and that -PRON- have sit there too long over -PRON- beer . 
 see that -PRON- be thin people and would not take up much room , the rooster let -PRON- both climb in , although -PRON- do have to promise that -PRON- would not step on -PRON- or on the hen 's foot . 
 late that evening -PRON- come to an inn , where -PRON- turn in , not want to drive any further into the night . furthermore , the duck 's foot be not do well , and -PRON- be waddle from one side to the other . 
 at first the innkeeper do not want to receive -PRON- . -PRON- say that -PRON- inn be already full , but -PRON- be also think that these be not very respectable people . -PRON- beg -PRON- with -PRON- kind word , offer to give -PRON- the egg that the hen have lay on the way , and tell -PRON- that -PRON- could keep the duck , who lay an egg every day . finally -PRON- say that -PRON- could spend the night there . 
 -PRON- order food and drink , and have a high time . 
 early the next morning , just as -PRON- be get light , and everyone be still asleep , the rooster wake up the hen . -PRON- get the egg , peck -PRON- open , and eat -PRON- together , throw the shell into the fireplace . then -PRON- go to the needle , who be still asleep , grab -PRON- by the head , and stick -PRON- into the innkeeper 's seat cushion . -PRON- stick the pin into -PRON- towel , and then without further ado -PRON- flee across the heath . 
 the duck , who prefer to sleep under the open sky , have spend the night in the courtyard , and -PRON- hear -PRON- sneak away . -PRON- force -PRON- to wake up , find a brook , and swim away downstream , much faster than -PRON- have travel in front of the carriage . 
 a few hour later the innkeeper climb out of the feather , wash -PRON- , and start to dry off on the towel when the pin go across -PRON- face , leave a red streak from one ear to the other . then -PRON- go into the kitchen . -PRON- want to light -PRON- pipe , but as -PRON- approach the fireplace , the eggshell spring into -PRON- eye . 
 " everything be after -PRON- head today , " -PRON- say , sit down crossly in the grandfather chair , but -PRON- jump up immediately , shout , " ouch ! " the needle have stick -PRON- even worse , and not in the head . 
 now -PRON- be totally angry . suspect the guest who have arrive so late yesterday evening , -PRON- go to look for -PRON- , but -PRON- be go . 
 -PRON- then vow never again to take in such a pack of scoundrel who eat and drink a lot , pay nothing , and for thank play mean trick . 

 bearskin 

 -PRON- parent be dead , and -PRON- have no longer a home , so -PRON- go to -PRON- brother and ask -PRON- to support -PRON- until there be another war . 
 the brother , however , be hardhearted and say , " what can -PRON- do with -PRON- ? -PRON- have no work for -PRON- . see that -PRON- go and make a living for   -PRON- . " 
 the soldier have nothing leave but -PRON- gun , so , put -PRON- on -PRON-   shoulder , -PRON- go forth into the world . -PRON- come to a large heath , on which nothing be   to be see but a circle of tree . fill with sorrow , -PRON- sit down beneath -PRON-   and think about -PRON- fate . 
 " i have no money , " -PRON- think , " and the only trade i have learn be that of make war , and now that -PRON- have make peace -PRON- can   no longer use -PRON- , so i see that i shall starve . " 
 suddenly -PRON- hear a rustling sound , and when -PRON- look around , a   strange man be stand before -PRON- . -PRON- wear a green jacket and look quite stately ,   but -PRON- have a hideous horse 's foot . 
 " i know what -PRON- be in need of , " say the man . " -PRON- shall have money and property , as much as -PRON- , with all -PRON- might , can squander away , but first i must know if -PRON- be fearless , so that i will not be give   away -PRON- money for nothing . " 
 " a soldier and fear -- how can those go together ? " -PRON- answer , " -PRON- can put -PRON- to the test . " 
 " very well , " answer the man , " look behind -PRON- . " 
 the soldier turn around and see a large growl bear run towards   -PRON- . 
 " aha , " shout the soldier , " i 'll tickle -PRON- nose until -PRON- lose -PRON- desire for growl . " then take aim at the bear , -PRON- shoot -PRON- in the snout , and -PRON- fall down motionless . 
 " i see quite well , " say the stranger , " that -PRON- do not lack for courage , but there be one more condition that -PRON- will have to fulfill . " 
 " if -PRON- do not endanger -PRON- salvation , " answer the soldier , who know quite well who be stand before -PRON- . " otherwise -PRON- will have nothing to do with -PRON- . " 
 " -PRON- will see about that for -PRON- , " answer greenjacket . " for the next seven year -PRON- be neither to wash -PRON- , nor comb -PRON- beard and hair , nor cut -PRON- nail , nor say the lord 's prayer . i will give   -PRON- a jacket and a cloak , which -PRON- must wear during this time . if -PRON- die   during these seven year , -PRON- be -PRON- . if -PRON- stay alive , -PRON- be free , and rich   as well , for all the rest of -PRON- life . " 
 the soldier think about -PRON- desperate situation , and have face   death so often before , -PRON- decide to risk -PRON- now as well , and -PRON- enter into the agreement . 
 the devil take off -PRON- green jacket and give -PRON- to the soldier , say , " whenever -PRON- wear this jacket and reach into -PRON- pocket , -PRON- will find a handful of money . " 
 then -PRON- pull the skin off the bear and say , " this shall be -PRON- cloak , and -PRON- bed as well , for -PRON- be to sleep on -PRON- , and -PRON- be not allow to lie in any other bed . because of -PRON- clothing -PRON- shall -PRON- be call bearskin . " with that the devil disappear . 
 the soldier put on the jacket , immediately reach into the pocket , and find that the promise be really true . then -PRON- put on the bearskin and   go forth into the world . -PRON- do whatever -PRON- please , refrain from nothing   that do -PRON- good and -PRON- money harm . 
 during the first year -PRON- appearance be still acceptable , but during   the second -PRON- look like a monster . -PRON- hair cover nearly -PRON- entire face .   -PRON- beard look like a piece of coarse feel cloth . -PRON- finger have claw , and   -PRON- face be so cover with dirt that if someone have plant cress on -PRON- , -PRON-   would have grow . everyone who see -PRON- run away . however , because everywhere -PRON-   go -PRON- give money to the poor to pray that -PRON- may not die during the seven   year , and because -PRON- pay well for everything , -PRON- always find shelter . 
 in the fourth year -PRON- arrive an inn . the innkeeper would not let -PRON-   enter , refuse even to let -PRON- have a place in the stable because -PRON- be afraid   -PRON- would frighten the horse . however , when bearskin reach into -PRON- pocket   and pull out a handful of ducat , the innkeeper soften and give -PRON- a room   in an outbuilding . bearskin , however , have to promise not to let -PRON- be   see , lest the inn should get a bad name . 
 one evening bearskin be sit alone , wish with all -PRON- heart that   the seven year be over , -PRON- hear a loud moaning in a neighboring room . -PRON-   have a compassionate heart , so -PRON- open the door and see an old man weep   bitterly and strike -PRON- hand together above -PRON- head . bearskin go nearer , but   the man jump to -PRON- foot and try to run away . at last , hear a human   voice , the man let bearskin talk to -PRON- , and with friendly word bearskin   succeed in get the old man to reveal the cause of -PRON- grief . slowly but surely   the old man have lose -PRON- wealth , and now -PRON- and -PRON- daughter would have to   starve . -PRON- be so poor that -PRON- could not pay the innkeeper and be to be send to   prison . 
 " if that be -PRON- only problem , " say bearskin , " i have money enough . " -PRON- call for the innkeeper and pay -PRON- , and then put a bag full of gold into the poor man 's pocket . 
 when the old man see that -PRON- be free from all -PRON- trouble -PRON- do not   know how to show -PRON- gratitude . 
 " come with -PRON- , " -PRON- say to bearskin . " -PRON- daughter be all miracle of beauty . choose one of -PRON- for -PRON- wife . when -PRON- hear what   -PRON- have do for -PRON- -PRON- will not refuse -PRON- . -PRON- do look a little strange , to   be sure , but -PRON- will put -PRON- in order again . " 
 this pleased bearskin well , and -PRON- go with the old man . 
 when the old daughter see -PRON- -PRON- be so terrified at -PRON- face that   -PRON- scream and run away . 
 the second one stand still and look at -PRON- from head to foot , but   then -PRON- say , " how can i accept a husband who no longer have a human form ? the shave bear that once be here and pass -PRON- off for a man please -PRON-   far better . at least -PRON- be wear a hussar 's fur and white glove . if   ugliness be -PRON- only flaw , i could get use to -PRON- . " 
 the young one , however , say , " father , dear , -PRON- must be a good man   to have help -PRON- out of -PRON- trouble . if -PRON- promise -PRON- a bride for do   so , -PRON- word must be keep . " 
 -PRON- be a pity that bearskin 's face be cover with dirt and hair , for otherwise -PRON- would have see how -PRON- heart laugh within -PRON- body when   -PRON- hear these word . -PRON- take a ring from -PRON- finger , break -PRON- in two , and give -PRON-   one half . -PRON- keep the other half -PRON- . -PRON- then write -PRON- name inside -PRON-   half , and -PRON- name inside -PRON- . -PRON- ask -PRON- to take good care of -PRON- piece . 
 then -PRON- take leave say , " i must wander about for three more year . if i do not return at that time -PRON- be free , for i shall be dead . but ask   god to preserve -PRON- life . " 
 the poor bride - to - be dress -PRON- entirely in black , and when -PRON-   think about -PRON- future bridegroom , tear come into -PRON- eye . from -PRON- sister   -PRON- receive nothing but contempt and scorn . 
 " be careful , " say the old . " if -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- hand , -PRON- will hit -PRON- with -PRON- claw . " 
 " beware , " say the second . " bear like sweet thing , and if -PRON- take a liking to -PRON- , -PRON- will eat -PRON- up . " 
 " -PRON- must always do what -PRON- want -PRON- to , " continue the old , " or -PRON- will begin to growl . " 
 and the second add , " but the wedding will be merry , for bear dance well . " 
 the bride - to - be say nothing and do not let -PRON- irritate -PRON- .   bearskin , however , travel about the world from one place to another , do good   wherever -PRON- could , and give generously to the poor that -PRON- may pray for -PRON- . 
 finally , at dawn on the last day of the seven year , -PRON- go once more    out to the heath , and seat -PRON- beneath the circle of tree . before long   the wind begin to howl , and the devil stand before -PRON- , look at -PRON-   angrily . -PRON- throw bearskin 's old jacket to -PRON- and demand the return of -PRON- own   green one . 
 " -PRON- haven't get that far yet , " answer bearskin . " first of all -PRON- have to clean -PRON- up . " 
 whether the devil want to or not , -PRON- have to fetch water and wash off bearskin , comb -PRON- hair , and cut -PRON- nail . after this -PRON- look like a   brave soldier and be much good look than -PRON- have ever be before . 
 when the devil be safely go bearskin be quite lighthearted . -PRON- go   into the town , purchase a splendid velvet jacket , seat -PRON- in a carriage draw by four white horse , and drive to -PRON- bride 's house . no one   recognize -PRON- . the father take -PRON- for a distinguished colonel and lead -PRON- into the   room where -PRON- daughter be sit . -PRON- be give a seat between the two   old one . -PRON- pour wine for -PRON- , serve -PRON- the fine thing to eat , and think that -PRON- have never see a more handsome man in all the world . 
 the bride - to - be , however , sit across from -PRON- in -PRON- black dress   without raise -PRON- eye or speak a word . finally -PRON- ask the father if -PRON-   would give -PRON- one of -PRON- daughter for a wife , whereupon the two old one   jump up and run into -PRON- bedroom to put on splendid dress , for each of   -PRON- think that -PRON- be the choose one . 
 as soon as -PRON- be alone with -PRON- bride - to - be , the stranger bring out   -PRON- half of the ring and drop -PRON- into a glass of wine , which -PRON- hand   across the table to -PRON- . -PRON- take the wine , but when -PRON- have drunk -PRON- and find   the half ring lie at the bottom , -PRON- heart begin to beat . -PRON- take the other half , which -PRON- wear on a ribbon around -PRON- neck , put -PRON- together , and   see that the two piece match perfectly . 
 then -PRON- say , " i be -PRON- betrothed bridegroom , whom -PRON- see as bearskin . through god 's grace i have regain -PRON- human form and have   become clean again . " 
 -PRON- go to -PRON- , embrace -PRON- , and give -PRON- a kiss . in the meantime the   two sister come back in full dress . when -PRON- see that the young sister   have receive the handsome man , and hear that -PRON- be bearskin , -PRON- run out   fill with anger and rage . one of -PRON- drown -PRON- in the well . the other   hang -PRON- on a tree . 
 that evening , someone knock at the door , and when the bridegroom   open -PRON- , -PRON- be the devil in -PRON- green jacket , who say , " -PRON- see , i now have two soul for the one of -PRON- . " 

 rapunzel 

 one day the woman be stand at this window , and -PRON- see a bed plant with the most beautiful rapunzel . -PRON- look so fresh and green that -PRON- long for some . -PRON- be -PRON- great desire to eat some of the rapunzel . this desire increase with every day , and not know how to get any , -PRON- become miserably ill . 
 -PRON- husband be frightened , and ask -PRON- , " what ail -PRON- , dear wife ? " 
 " oh , " -PRON- answer , " if i do not get some rapunzel from the garden behind -PRON- house , i shall die . " 
 the man , who love -PRON- dearly , think , " before -PRON- let -PRON- wife die , -PRON- must get -PRON- some of the rapunzel , whatev the cost . " 
 so just as -PRON- be get dark -PRON- climb over the high wall into the sorceress 's garden , hastily dig up a handful of rapunzel , and take -PRON- to -PRON- wife . -PRON- immediately make a salad from -PRON- , which -PRON- devour eagerly . -PRON- taste so very good to -PRON- that by the next day -PRON- desire for more have grow threefold . if -PRON- be to have any peace , the man would have to climb into the garden once again . thus -PRON- set forth once again just as -PRON- be get dark . but no sooner than -PRON- have climb over the wall than , to -PRON- horror , -PRON- see the sorceress stand there before -PRON- . 
 " how can -PRON- dare , " -PRON- ask with an angry look , " to climb into -PRON- garden and like a thief to steal -PRON- rapunzel ? -PRON- will pay for this . " 
 " oh , " -PRON- answer , " let mercy overrule justice . i come to do this out of necessity . -PRON- wife see -PRON- rapunzel from -PRON- window , and such a longing come over -PRON- , that -PRON- would die , if -PRON- do not get some to eat . " 
 the sorceress 's anger abate somewhat , and -PRON- say , " if thing be as -PRON- say , i will allow -PRON- to take as much rapunzel as -PRON- want . but under one condition : -PRON- must give -PRON- the child that -PRON- wife will bring to the world . -PRON- will do well , and i will take care of -PRON- like a mother . " 
 in -PRON- fear the man agree to everything . 
 when the woman give birth , the sorceress appear , name the little girl rapunzel , and take -PRON- away . rapunzel become the most beautiful child under the sun . when -PRON- be twelve year old , the fairy lock -PRON- in a tower that stand in a forest and that have neither a door nor a stairway , but only a tiny little window at the very top . 
 when the sorceress want to enter , -PRON- stand below and call out : 
 a few year later -PRON- happen that a king 's son be rid through the forest . as -PRON- approach the tower -PRON- hear a song so beautiful that -PRON- stop to listen . -PRON- be rapunzel , who be pass the time by sing with -PRON- sweet voice . the prince want to climb up to -PRON- , and look for a door in the tower , but none be to be find . 
 -PRON- ride home , but the song have so touch -PRON- heart that -PRON- return to the forest every day and listen to -PRON- . one time , as -PRON- be thus stand behind a tree , -PRON- see the sorceress approach , and hear -PRON- say : 
 " if that be the ladder into the tower , then sometime i will try -PRON- luck . " 
 and the next day , just as -PRON- be begin to get dark , -PRON- go to the tower and call out : 
 at first rapunzel be terribly frightened when a man such as -PRON- have never see before come in to -PRON- . however , the prince begin talk to -PRON- in a very friendly manner , tell -PRON- that -PRON- heart have be so touch by -PRON- singing that -PRON- could have no peace until -PRON- have see -PRON- in person . then rapunzel lose -PRON- fear , and when -PRON- ask -PRON- if -PRON- would take -PRON- as -PRON- husband , -PRON- think , " -PRON- would rather have -PRON- than would old frau gothel . " -PRON- say yes and place -PRON- hand into -PRON- . 
 -PRON- say , " i would go with -PRON- gladly , but i do not know how to get down . every time that -PRON- come , bring a strand of silk , from which i will weave a ladder . when -PRON- be finish i will climb down , and -PRON- can take -PRON- away on -PRON- horse . " -PRON- arrange that -PRON- would come to -PRON- every evening , for the old woman come by day . 
 the sorceress do not notice what be happen until one day rapunzel say to -PRON- , " frau gothel , tell -PRON- why -PRON- be that -PRON- be more difficult to pull up than be the young prince , who will be arrive any moment now ? " 
 " -PRON- godless child , " cry the sorceress . " what be i hear from -PRON- ? i think i have remove -PRON- from the whole world , but -PRON- have deceive -PRON- nonetheless . " 
 in -PRON- anger -PRON- grab rapunzel 's beautiful hair , wrap -PRON- a few time around -PRON- left hand , grasp a pair of scissor with -PRON- right hand , and snip snap , cut -PRON- off . and -PRON- be so unmerciful that -PRON- take rapunzel into a wilderness where -PRON- suffer greatly . 
 on the evening of the same day that -PRON- send rapunzel away , the fairy tie the cut - off hair to the hook at the top of the tower , and when the prince call out : 
 the prince climb up , but above , instead of -PRON- beloved rapunzel , -PRON- find the sorceress , who peer at -PRON- with poisonous and evil look . 
 " aha ! " -PRON- cry scornfully . " -PRON- have come for -PRON- mistress darling , but that beautiful bird be no longer sit in -PRON- nest , nor be -PRON- sing any more . the cat get -PRON- , and will scratch -PRON- eye out as well . -PRON- have lose rapunzel . -PRON- will never see -PRON- again . " 
 the prince be overcome with grief , and in -PRON- despair -PRON- throw -PRON- from the tower . -PRON- escape with -PRON- life , but the thorn into which -PRON- fall poke out -PRON- eye . blind , -PRON- wander about in the forest , eat nothing but grass and root , and do nothing but weep and wail over the loss of -PRON- beloved wife . thus -PRON- wander about miserably for some year , finally happen into the wilderness where rapunzel live miserably with the twin that -PRON- have give birth to . 
 -PRON- hear a voice and think -PRON- be familiar . -PRON- advance toward -PRON- , and as -PRON- approach , rapunzel recognize -PRON- , and cry , throw -PRON- arm around -PRON- neck . two of -PRON- tear fall into -PRON- eye , and -PRON- become clear once again , and -PRON- could see as well as before . -PRON- lead -PRON- into -PRON- kingdom , where -PRON- be receive with joy , and for a long time -PRON- live happily and satisfied . 
 return to d. l. ashliman 's folktexts , a library of folktale , folklore , fairy tale , and mythology . 


 sweet porridge 

 the girl take the pot home to -PRON- mother , and now -PRON- be free from -PRON- poverty and hunger , and eat sweet porridge as often as -PRON- choose . one time when the girl have go out , -PRON- mother say , " little pot , cook . " and -PRON- do cook , and -PRON- eat until -PRON- be full , and then -PRON- want the pot to stop cook , but do not know the word .   so -PRON- go on cooking and the porridge rise over the edge , and still -PRON- cook on until the kitchen and whole house be full , and then the next house , and then the whole street , just as if -PRON- want to satisfy the hunger of the whole world .   -PRON- be terrible , and no one know how to stop -PRON- .   at last when only one single house remain , the child come home and just say , " little pot , stop , " and -PRON- stop cook , and anyone who wish to return to the town have to eat -PRON- way back . 

 the clever people 

 " in god 's name , just go in peace , " answer the woman , " i will manage that . " 
 " -PRON- , indeed , " say the man . " -PRON- once fall on -PRON- head when -PRON- be a little child , and that affect -PRON- even now . but let -PRON- tell -PRON- this , if -PRON- do anything foolish , i will make -PRON- back black and blue , and not with paint , i assure -PRON- , but with the stick which i have in -PRON- hand . and the coloring shall last a whole year . -PRON- may rely on that . " have say that , the man go on -PRON- way . 
 the next morning the cattle dealer come , and the woman have no need to say many word to -PRON- . when -PRON- have see the cow and hear the price , -PRON- say , " i be quite willing to give that . honestly speak , -PRON- be worth -PRON- . i will take the animal away with -PRON- at once . " 
 -PRON- unfasten -PRON- chain and drive -PRON- out of the stall , but just as -PRON- be go out of the farmyard gate , the woman clutch -PRON- by the sleeve and say , " -PRON- must give -PRON- the two hundred taler now , or i can not let the cow go . " 
 " right , " answer the man , " but i have forget to buckle on -PRON- money belt . have no fear , however , -PRON- shall have security until i pay . i will take two cow with -PRON- and leave one , so -PRON- will have good collateral . " 
 the woman see the wisdom of this , and let the man go away with the cow , and think to -PRON- , " how pleased han will be when -PRON- find how cleverly i have manage . " 
 the peasant come home on the third day as -PRON- have say -PRON- would , and at once inquire if the cow be sell . " yes , indeed , dear han , " answer the woman , " and as -PRON- say , for two hundred taler . -PRON- be scarcely worth so much , but the man take -PRON- without make any objection . " 
 " where be the money ? " ask the peasant . " oh , i have not get the money , " reply the woman . " -PRON- have happen to forget -PRON- money belt , but -PRON- will soon bring -PRON- , and -PRON- leave good security behind -PRON- . " 
 " what kind of security ? " ask the man . 
 " one of the three cow , which -PRON- shall not have until -PRON- have pay for the other two . i have manage very cunningly , for i have keep the small , which eat the least . " 
 the man be enrage and lift up -PRON- stick , and be just go to give -PRON- the beating -PRON- have promise -PRON- , when suddenly -PRON- lower the stick and say , " -PRON- be the stupid goose that ever waddle on god 's earth , but i be sorry for -PRON- . i will go out into the highway and wait for three day to see if i find anyone who be still stupid than -PRON- . if i succe in do so , -PRON- shall go free , but if i do not find -PRON- , -PRON- shall receive -PRON- well - deserved reward without any discount . " 
 -PRON- go out into the great highway , sit down on a stone , and wait for what would come along . then -PRON- see a farm wagon come towards -PRON- , and a woman be stand upright in the middle of -PRON- , instead of sit on the bundle of straw which be lie beside -PRON- , or walk near the oxen and lead -PRON- . 
 the man think to -PRON- , " that be certainly one of the kind i be in search of , " and jump up and run back and forth in front of the wagon like one who be not in -PRON- right mind . 
 " what do -PRON- want , -PRON- friend ? " say the woman to -PRON- . " i do not know -PRON- , where do -PRON- come from ? " 
 " i have fall down from heaven , " reply the man , " and do not know how to get back again . could not -PRON- drive -PRON- up ? " 
 " no , " say the woman , " i do not know the way . but if -PRON- come from heaven -PRON- can surely tell -PRON- how -PRON- husband be , who have be there these three year . -PRON- must have see -PRON- . " 
 " oh , yes , i have see -PRON- , but not everyone can get on well . -PRON- herd sheep , and these creature give -PRON- a great deal to do . -PRON- run up the mountain and lose -PRON- way in the wilderness , and -PRON- have to run after -PRON- and drive -PRON- together again . -PRON- clothe be all tear to piece too , and will soon fall off -PRON- body . there be no tailor there , for saint peter will not let any of -PRON- in , as -PRON- know by the story . " 
 " who would have think -PRON- ? " cry the woman . " i tell -PRON- what . i will fetch -PRON- sunday coat which be still hang at home in the cupboard . -PRON- can wear that and look respectable . -PRON- will be so kind as to take -PRON- with -PRON- . " 
 " that will not be possible , " answer the peasant . " people be not allow to take clothe into heaven . -PRON- be take away at the gate . " 
 " then listen to -PRON- , " say the woman . " i sell -PRON- good wheat yesterday and get a lot of money for -PRON- . i will send that to -PRON- . if -PRON- hide the purse in -PRON- pocket , no one will know that -PRON- have -PRON- . " 
 " if -PRON- can not manage -PRON- any other way , " say the peasant , " i will do -PRON- that favor . " 
 " just sit still where -PRON- be , " say -PRON- , " and i will drive home and fetch the purse . i shall soon be back again . i do not sit down on the bundle of straw , but stand up in the wagon , because -PRON- make -PRON- light for the cattle . " 
 -PRON- drive -PRON- oxen away , and the peasant think , " that woman have a perfect talent for folly . if -PRON- really bring the money , -PRON- wife may think -PRON- fortunate , for -PRON- will get no beating . " 
 -PRON- be not long before -PRON- come in a great hurry with the money , and with -PRON- own hand put -PRON- in -PRON- pocket . before -PRON- go away , -PRON- thank -PRON- again a thousand time for -PRON- courtesy . 
 when the woman get home again , -PRON- find -PRON- son who have come in from the field . -PRON- tell -PRON- what unexpected thing have befall -PRON- , and then add , " i be truly delighted at have find an opportunity of send something to -PRON- poor husband . who would ever have imagine that -PRON- could be suffer for want of anything up in heaven ? " 
 the son be full of astonishment . " mother , " say -PRON- , -PRON- be not every day that a man come from heaven in this way . i will go out immediately , and see if -PRON- be still to be find , -PRON- must tell -PRON- what -PRON- be like up there , and how the work be do . 
 -PRON- saddle the horse and ride off with all speed . -PRON- find the peasant who be sit under a willow tree , and be about to count the money in the purse . " have -PRON- see the man who have come from heaven ? " cry the youth to -PRON- . 
 " yes , " answer the peasant , " -PRON- have set out on -PRON- way back there , and have go up that hill , from whence -PRON- will be rather nearer . -PRON- could still catch -PRON- up , if -PRON- ride fast . " 
 " alas , " say the youth , " i have be do tiring work all day , and the ride here have completely wear -PRON- out . -PRON- know the man . be so kind as to get on -PRON- horse , and go and persuade -PRON- to come here . " 
 " aha , " think the peasant . " here be another who have no wick in -PRON- lamp . " 
 " why should i not do -PRON- this favor ? " say -PRON- , and mount the horse and ride off at a quick trot . the youth remain sit there until night fall , but the peasant never come back . 
 " the man from heaven must certainly have be in a great hurry , and would not turn back , " think -PRON- , " and the peasant have no doubt give -PRON- the horse to take to -PRON- father . " -PRON- go home and tell -PRON- mother what have happen , and that -PRON- have send -PRON- father the horse so that -PRON- may not have to be always run about . 
 " -PRON- have do well , " answer -PRON- . " -PRON- still have young leg and can go on foot . " 
 when the peasant get home , -PRON- put the horse in the stable beside the cow which have be leave as security , and then go to -PRON- wife and say , " trina , as -PRON- luck would have -PRON- , i have find two who be still more stupid fool than -PRON- . this time -PRON- escape without a beating . i will store -PRON- up for another occasion . " 
 then -PRON- light -PRON- pipe , sit down in -PRON- grandfather 's chair , and say , " -PRON- be a good stroke of business to get a sleek horse and a great purse full of money into the bargain , for two lean cow . if stupidity always bring in as much as that , i would be quite willing to hold -PRON- in honor . " 
 so think the peasant , but -PRON- no doubt prefer the simpleton . 

 a riddle tale 

 and that be what happen . 
 now the question be , how do -PRON- husband recognize -PRON- , for the flower   be exactly alike , and without any difference ? 
 answer : while -PRON- be in -PRON- house during the night and not in the   field , the dew do not fall on -PRON- as -PRON- do on the other two , and by this   -PRON- husband recognize -PRON- . 

 the two traveler 

 the shoemaker take a mighty drink , and the storm on -PRON- face begin to   clear away . -PRON- give the bottle back to the tailor , and say , " i take a   hearty gulp . -PRON- have a lot to say about heavy drinking , but not    much about great thirst . shall -PRON- travel together ? " 
 " all right , " answer the tailor , " but only if only -PRON- suit -PRON- to go   to a big town where there be no lack of work . " 
 " that be just where i want to go , " answer the shoemaker . " in a small   place there be nothing to be earn , and in the country people prefer to   go barefoot . " 
 thus -PRON- travel on together , always set one foot before the other   like a weasel in the snow . both of -PRON- have time enough , but little to   eat . when -PRON- reach a town -PRON- go about look for work , and   because the tailor look so lively and merry , and have such fine red   cheek , every one give -PRON- work willingly , and if -PRON- be lucky , the   master 's daughter give -PRON- a kiss as well . 
 whenever -PRON- meet up with the shoemaker , the tailor always have the most in   -PRON- bundle . the ill - temper shoemaker would make a sour face , think ,   " the great the rascal , the good the luck . " 
 but the tailor would begin   to laugh and to sing , and share everything -PRON- have with -PRON- comrade . if a   couple of penny jingle in -PRON- pocket , -PRON- order drink , then   cheerfully thump the table until the glass dance . -PRON- motto be " easy   come , easy go . " 
 after -PRON- have travel for some time , -PRON- come to a great forest through   which pass the way to the capital . two footpath lead through   -PRON- , one of which be a seven day ' journey and the other only two , but   neither of -PRON- know which way be the short one . -PRON- sit down beneath   an oak tree and discuss together what preparation to make , and for how   many day -PRON- should provide -PRON- with bread . 
 the shoemaker say , " one must plan ahead for the unexpected . i will take   with -PRON- bread for a week . " 
 " what ? " say the tailor . " haul bread for seven day on one 's back like a   beast of burden and not be able to look about ? i shall trust in god , and   not trouble -PRON- about anything . the money i have in -PRON- pocket be as   good in summer as in winter , but in hot weather bread dry out and get   moldy on top of that . even -PRON- coat reach only to -PRON- ankle . why   should not -PRON- find the right way ? bread for two day , and that be enough . " 
 therefore each person buy -PRON- own bread , and then -PRON- try -PRON- luck   in the forest .     -PRON- be as quiet there as in a church . no wind stir , no brook murmur ,   no bird sing , and no sunbeam find -PRON- way through the thickly leave   branch . the shoemaker do not speak a word . the bread weigh so heavily   on -PRON- back that the sweat stream down -PRON- cross and gloomy face . 
 the tailor , however , be quite merry . walk on with a spring in each   step , -PRON- whistle on a leaf , or sing a song , and think to -PRON- , " god   in heaven must be pleased that i be so happy . " 
 this last two day , but on the third there be still no end to the   forest , and the tailor have eat up all -PRON- bread . thus -PRON- heart sink   down a yard deep . nevertheless , -PRON- do not lose courage , but rely on   god and on -PRON- luck . on the evening of the third day -PRON- lie down hungry   under a tree , and rise again the next morning still hungry . the fourth day   be   the same , and when the shoemaker seat -PRON- on a fallen tree and   devour -PRON- dinner the tailor be only a spectator . 
 if -PRON- beg for a little piece of bread , the other laugh mockingly , and   say , " -PRON- have always be so merry . now -PRON- can see for once what -PRON- be   like to be sad . bird that s too early in the morning be catch by the   hawk in the evening . " 
 in short , -PRON- be merciless . on the fifth morning the poor tailor could no   longer stand up and be hardly able to utter one word for weakness . -PRON-   cheek be white , and -PRON- eye be red . 
 then the shoemaker say to -PRON- , " i will give -PRON- a bit of bread today , but   in return for -PRON- , i will put out -PRON- right eye . " 
 the unhappy tailor , who still wish to save -PRON- life , have to submit . -PRON-   weep once more with both eye , and then hold -PRON- out , and the shoemaker ,   who have a heart of stone , put out -PRON- right eye with a sharp knife . the   tailor remember what -PRON- mother have once say to -PRON- when -PRON- have be   snack in the pantry : " eat whatev -PRON- can , and suffer whatev -PRON-   must . " 
 after eat -PRON- dearly - buy bread , -PRON- get on -PRON- leg again , forget -PRON-   misery , and comfort -PRON- with the thought that -PRON- could always see   enough with one eye . but on the sixth day , hunger make -PRON- feel again ,   almost consume -PRON- heart . that evening -PRON- fall down by a tree , and on   the seventh morning -PRON- be too weak to get up , and death be close at   hand . 
 then the shoemaker say , " i will show mercy and give -PRON- bread once more ,   but -PRON- shall not have -PRON- for nothing . i shall put out -PRON- other eye for   -PRON- . " 
 and now the tailor feel how careless -PRON- life have be , pray to god for   forgiveness , and say , " do what -PRON- will . i will bear what i must , but   remember that -PRON- lord god do not always look on passively , and that an   hour will come when the evil deed which -PRON- have do to -PRON- , and which i   have not deserve of -PRON- , will be requite . when time be good with -PRON-   i share what i have with -PRON- . -PRON- trade be such that one stitch must follow   another . if i no longer have -PRON- eye and can sew no more , i must go   beg . at any rate do not leave -PRON- here alone when i be blind , or i   shall die of hunger . " 
 the shoemaker , however , who have drive god out of -PRON- heart , take the   knife and put out -PRON- left eye . then -PRON- give -PRON- a bit of bread to eat ,   hold out a stick to -PRON- , and lead -PRON- on behind -PRON- . 
 at sunset , -PRON- get out of the forest , and before -PRON- in an open field   stand the gallow . the shoemaker lead the blind tailor there , and then go   on -PRON- way , leave -PRON- there alone . weariness , pain , and hunger make the   wretched man fall asleep , and -PRON- sleep the whole night . -PRON- awake at dawn ,   not know where -PRON- be . 
 two poor sinner be hang on the gallow , with a crow sit on the head   of each of -PRON- . then one of the man who have be hang begin to speak ,   and say , " brother , be -PRON- awake ? " 
 " yes , i be awake , " answer the second . 
 " then i will tell -PRON- something , " say the first . " the dew that this night   have fall down over -PRON- from the gallow give everyone who wash   -PRON- with -PRON- -PRON- eye again . if the blind know this , how many would   regain -PRON- sight who do not believe that to be possible ? " 
 hear this the tailor take -PRON- handkerchief , press -PRON- on the grass ,   and when -PRON- be moist with dew , wash the socket of -PRON- eye with -PRON- .   immediately what the man on the gallow have say come true , and a pair of   healthy new eye fill the socket . -PRON- be not long before the tailor see   the sun rise from behind the mountain . in the plain before -PRON- lie the   great   royal city with -PRON- magnificent gate and hundred tower , and the golden   ball and cross on the spire begin to shine . -PRON- could distinguish every   leaf on the tree , see the bird fly past , and the gnat dance in the   air . -PRON- take a needle out of -PRON- pocket , and as -PRON- could thread -PRON- as well   as ever -PRON- have do , -PRON- heart dance with delight . 
 -PRON- throw -PRON- on -PRON- knee , thank god for the mercy -PRON- have show -PRON- ,   and say -PRON- morning prayer , not forget to pray for the poor sinner   who be hang there swing against each other in the wind like the   pendulum of clock . then -PRON- take -PRON- bundle on -PRON- back and soon forget   the sorrow -PRON- have endure , and go on -PRON- way singing and whistling . 
 the first thing -PRON- come to be a brown foal freely run about the   field . -PRON- catch -PRON- by the mane , and want to mount -PRON- and ride into the   town . the foal , however , beg for -PRON- freedom . " i be still too young , "   -PRON- say . " even a light tailor such as -PRON- be would break -PRON- back in two .   let -PRON- go until i have grow strong . perhaps a time may come when i can   reward -PRON- for -PRON- . " 
 " run off , " say the tailor . " i see that -PRON- be still only a   whippersnapper . "   -PRON- give -PRON- a touch on -PRON- back with a switch , whereupon -PRON- kick up -PRON-   hind leg for joy , jump over hedge and ditch , and gallop away into   the open country . 
 the little tailor have eat nothing since the day before . " the sun fill   -PRON- eye , " -PRON- say , " but bread do not fill -PRON- mouth . the first thing that   come -PRON- way and be even half edible will have to suffer for -PRON- . " 
 in the meantime a stork step solemnly over the meadow towards -PRON- .   " stop , stop , " cry the tailor , and seize -PRON- by the leg . " i do not know   if -PRON- be good to eat or not , but -PRON- hunger leave -PRON- no great choice . i   must cut -PRON- head off , and roast -PRON- . " 
 " do n't do that , " reply the stork . " i be a sacred bird that bring   mankind great profit , and no one harm -PRON- . if -PRON- spare -PRON- life i will be   able do -PRON- good in some other way . " 
 " then be off , cousin longleg , " say the tailor . the stork rise up , let   -PRON- long leg hang down , and fly gently away . 
 " what be to be the end of this ? " say the tailor to -PRON- at last . " -PRON-   hunger grow great and great , and -PRON- stomach more and more empty .   whatev come in -PRON- way now be lose . " 
 then -PRON- see a couple of young   duck which be on a pond come swimming towards -PRON- . " -PRON- come just at   the right moment , " say -PRON- , and lay hold of one of -PRON- and be about to   wr -PRON- neck . 
 with this an old duck which be hide among the reed , begin to squawk   loudly . -PRON- swim to -PRON- with open beak , beg -PRON- urgently to spare -PRON-   dear child . " can -PRON- not imagine , " say -PRON- , " how -PRON- mother would   mourn if someone want to carry -PRON- off , and do an end to -PRON- . " 
 " quiet down , " say the good - natured tailor . " -PRON- shall keep -PRON-   child , " and -PRON- set the capture one back into the water . 
 when -PRON- turn around , -PRON- be stand in front of an old tree which be   partly hollow , and see some wild bee fly in and out of -PRON- . " there i   shall find the reward of -PRON- good deed , " say the tailor . " the honey will   refresh -PRON- . " 
 but the queen bee come out and threaten -PRON- , say , " if -PRON- touch -PRON-   people and destroy -PRON- nest -PRON- sting shall pierce -PRON- skin like ten   thousand red - hot needle . but if -PRON- leave -PRON- in peace and go -PRON- way -PRON-   will do -PRON- a service for -PRON- another time . " 
 the little tailor see that here also nothing be to be do . three dish   empty and nothing on the fourth be a bad dinner . -PRON- drag -PRON-   therefore with -PRON- starve - out stomach into the town , and as -PRON- be just   strike twelve , all be ready - cook for -PRON- in the inn , and -PRON- be able   to sit down at once to dinner . 
 when -PRON- be satisfied -PRON- say , " now i will get to work . " -PRON- go around   the town , seek a master , and soon find a good situation . because -PRON-   already have thoroughly learn -PRON- trade , -PRON- be not long before -PRON- become   famous , and everyone want to have a new coat make by the little tailor .   -PRON- reputation grow day by day . 
 " i can go no further in skill , " say -PRON- , " and yet thing improve every   day . " at last the king appoint -PRON- court tailor . 
 but strange thing do happen in the world . on that very same day -PRON-   former   comrade the shoemaker also become court shoemaker . when the latter caught   sight of the tailor , and see that -PRON- once more have two healthy eye , -PRON-   conscience trouble -PRON- . " before -PRON- take revenge on -PRON- , " -PRON- think to   -PRON- , " i must dig a pit for -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- , however , who dig a pit for another , fall into -PRON- -PRON- . in the   evening when work be over and -PRON- be grow dark , -PRON- sneak to the king   and say , " -PRON- majesty , the tailor be an arrogant fellow and have boast   that -PRON- will get the golden crown back again that be lose age ago . " 
 " that would please -PRON- , " say the king , and the next morning -PRON- have the   tailor bring   before -PRON- , and order -PRON- to get the crown back again , or   to leave the city forever . 
 " aha , " think the tailor . " a rogue give more than -PRON- have . if the   bad - temper king want -PRON- to do what no one else can do , i will not wait   until morning , but will leave town at once . " 
 therefore -PRON- tie up -PRON- bundle , but once outside the gate -PRON- could not   help be sorry to give up -PRON- good fortune and turn -PRON- back on the   city in which all have go so well for -PRON- . -PRON- come to the pond where -PRON-   have make the acquaintance of the duck . at that very moment the old one   whose young one -PRON- have spar be sit there by the shore , preen   -PRON- with -PRON- beak . -PRON- know -PRON- again instantly , and ask why -PRON- be   hang -PRON- head so . 
 " -PRON- will not be surprised when -PRON- hear what have happen to -PRON- , " reply   the tailor , and tell -PRON- -PRON- fate . 
 " if that be all , " say the duck , " -PRON- can help -PRON- . the crown fall into the   water , and -PRON- lie down below at the bottom . -PRON- will soon bring -PRON- up   again for -PRON- . in the meantime just spread out -PRON- handkerchief on the   bank . " 
 -PRON- dove down with -PRON- twelve young one , and in five minute -PRON- be up   again with the crown rest on -PRON- wing . the twelve young one be   swimming round about with -PRON- beak under -PRON- , help to carry   -PRON- . -PRON- swim to the shore and put the crown on the handkerchief . no one   can imagine how magnificent the crown be . when the sun shone on -PRON- , -PRON-   gleam like a hundred thousand carbuncle . the tailor tie -PRON-   handkerchief together by the four corner and carry -PRON- to the king , who   be full of joy , and hang a gold chain around the tailor 's neck . 
 when the shoemaker see that the one trick have fail , -PRON- contrive a   second , and go to the king and say , " -PRON- majesty , the tailor have   become insolent again . -PRON- boast that -PRON- can copy in wax the whole of the   royal palace , with everything that pertain to -PRON- , movable or immovable ,   inside and out . " 
 the king send for the tailor and order -PRON- to copy in wax the whole of   the royal palace , with everything that pertain to -PRON- , movable or   immovable , inside and out . and fail this , or if so much as one nail on   the wall be miss , -PRON- should be imprison underground for the rest of   -PRON- life . 
 the tailor think , " -PRON- get bad and bad . no one can endure this , " and   -PRON- throw -PRON- bundle on -PRON- back , and go forth . when -PRON- come to the   hollow   tree , -PRON- sit down and hang -PRON- head . the bee come fly out , and the   queen bee ask -PRON- if -PRON- have a stiff neck , since -PRON- hang -PRON- head so . 
 " oh no , " answer the tailor , " something quite different weigh -PRON- down , "   and -PRON- tell -PRON- what the king have demand of -PRON- . 
 the bee begin to buzz and hum amongst -PRON- , and the queen bee say ,   " just go home again , but come back tomorrow at this time , and bring a   large cloth with -PRON- , and then all will be well . " 
 so -PRON- turn back again , but the bee fly to the royal palace and   straight into -PRON- through the open window , creep into every corner , and   inspect everything most carefully . then -PRON- hurry back and model   the palace in wax so quickly that anyone look on would have think -PRON-   be grow before -PRON- eye . by the evening all be ready , and when the   tailor come the next morning , the whole splendid building be there , and   not   one nail in the wall or tile on the roof be miss . and at the same time   -PRON- be delicate and white as snow , and smell sweet as honey . the tailor   wrap -PRON- carefully in -PRON- cloth and take -PRON- to the king , who could not   admire -PRON- enough , place -PRON- in -PRON- large hall , and in return for -PRON-   present the tailor with a large stone house . 
 the shoemaker , however , do not give up , but go for the third time to   the king and say , " -PRON- majesty , the tailor have hear that no water will   spring up in the castle 's courtyard , but -PRON- have boast that -PRON- can create   a fountain in the middle of the courtyard as tall as a man and as clear as   crystal . " 
 then the king order the tailor to be bring before -PRON- and say , " if a   stream of water do not rise in -PRON- courtyard by tomorrow as -PRON- have   promise , in that very place the executioner shall make -PRON- short by a   head . " 
 the poor tailor do not take long to think about -PRON- , but hurry out to   the gate , and because this time -PRON- be a matter of life and death to -PRON- ,   tear roll down -PRON- face . 
 while -PRON- be thus sorrowfully go forth , the foal to which -PRON- have   formerly give -PRON- liberty , and which have now become a beautiful chestnut   horse , come leap towards -PRON- . " the time have come , " -PRON- say to the   tailor , " when i can repay -PRON- for -PRON- good deed . i already know what -PRON-   need , and -PRON- shall soon have help . climb on ; -PRON- back can carry two of   -PRON- . " 
 the tailor 's courage come back to -PRON- . -PRON- jump up in one bound , and the   horse go full speed into the city , and immediately to the castle 's   courtyard . -PRON- gallop as quick as lightning three time around -PRON- , the   third time fall down . at that instant there be a terrific clap of   thunder , a fragment of earth in the middle of the courtyard spring like a   cannonball into the air and over the castle . directly afterward a jet of   water rise as high as a man on horseback , and the water be as pure as   crystal , and the sunbeam begin to dance on -PRON- . when the king see this -PRON-   arise in amazement , and go and embrace the tailor in the sight of all   man . 
 but good fortune do not last long . the king have daughter aplenty , each   one more beautiful than the other , but -PRON- have no son . so the malicious   shoemaker go to the king a fourth time , and say , " -PRON- majesty , the   tailor have not give up -PRON- arrogance . -PRON- have now boast that if -PRON-   like , -PRON- could cause a son to be bring to -PRON- majesty through the air . " 
 the king summon the tailor and say , " if -PRON- cause a son to be bring   to -PRON- within nine day , -PRON- shall have -PRON- eldest daughter to wife . " 
 " the reward be indeed great , " think the little tailor . " one would   willingly do something for -PRON- , but the cherry grow too high for -PRON- . if i   climb for -PRON- , the branch will break beneath -PRON- , and i shall fall . " 
 -PRON- go home , seat -PRON- cross - legg on -PRON- worktable , and think   over what be to be do . " -PRON- can not be manage , " -PRON- cry at last . " i will   go away after all . i can not live in peace here . " 
 -PRON- tie up -PRON- bundle and hurry away to the gate . when -PRON- get to the   meadow , -PRON- perceive -PRON- old friend the stork , who be walk backwards   and forward like a philosopher . sometimes -PRON- stand still , look closely   at a frog , than finally swallow -PRON- down . the stork come to -PRON- and   greet   -PRON- . 
 " i see , " -PRON- begin , " that -PRON- have -PRON- pack on -PRON- back . why be -PRON-   leave town ? " 
 the tailor tell -PRON- what the king have require of -PRON- , and how -PRON- could   not perform -PRON- , and lament -PRON- misfortune . 
 " do n't let that turn -PRON- hair gray , " say the stork , " i will help -PRON- out   of -PRON- difficulty . for a long time now , i have be carry infant   child into the city , so this time , i can fetch a little prince out of   the well . go home and take -PRON- easy . nine day from now go to the royal   palace , and i will arrive there as well . " 
 the little tailor go home , and at the appoint time be at the castle .   not long afterward the stork fly up and tap at the window . the tailor   open -PRON- , and cousin longleg come in carefully and walk with solemn   step over the smooth marble pavement . in -PRON- beak -PRON- have a baby that be   as lovely as an angel , and who stretch out -PRON- little hand to the   queen . the stork lay -PRON- in -PRON- lap , and -PRON- caress -PRON- and kiss -PRON- ,   and be beside -PRON- with delight . before fly away , the stork take   -PRON- travel bag off -PRON- back and hand -PRON- to the queen . in -PRON-   there be little paper parcel with color sweet , and -PRON- be divide   amongst the little princess . the eld , however , receive none of -PRON- ,   but instead get the merry tailor for a husband . 
 " -PRON- seem to -PRON- , " -PRON- say , " that i have win the high prize . -PRON- mother   be right after all . -PRON- always say that whoever trust in god and have   only good luck can never fail . " 
 the shoemaker have to make the shoe in which the little tailor dance at   the wedding festival , after which -PRON- be command to quit the town for   ever . the road to the forest lead -PRON- to the gallow . wear out with anger ,   rage , and the heat of the day , -PRON- throw -PRON- down . when -PRON- have close   -PRON- eye and be about to sleep , the two crow fly down from the head of   the man who be hang there and peck -PRON- eye out . in -PRON- madness -PRON-   run into the forest and must have die there of hunger , for no one have   see -PRON- or hear of -PRON- again . 



 han - -PRON- - hedgehog 

 then -PRON- wife have a baby , and the top half be a hedgehog and the bottom half a boy . when -PRON- see the baby , -PRON- be horrified and say , " now see what -PRON- have wish upon -PRON- ! " 
 the man say , " -PRON- can not be help . the boy must be baptize , but -PRON- can not ask anyone to be -PRON- godfather . " 
 the woman say , " and the only name that -PRON- can give -PRON- be hans - -PRON- - hedgehog . " 
 when -PRON- be baptize , the pastor say , " because of -PRON- quill -PRON- can not be give an ordinary bed . " so -PRON- put a little straw behind the stove and lay -PRON- in -PRON- . and -PRON- could not drink from -PRON- mother , for -PRON- would have stick -PRON- with -PRON- quill . -PRON- lie there behind the stove for eight year , and -PRON- father grow tired of -PRON- , and think , " if only -PRON- would die . " but -PRON- do not die , but just lie there . 
 now -PRON- happen that there be a fair in the city , and the peasant want to go . -PRON- ask -PRON- wife what -PRON- should bring -PRON- . 
 " a little meat , some bread roll , and thing for the household , " -PRON- say . then -PRON- ask the servant girl , and -PRON- want a pair of slipper and some fancy stocking . 
 finally , -PRON- also say , " han - -PRON- - hedgehog , what would -PRON- like ? " 
 " father , " -PRON- say , " bring -PRON- some bagpipe . " 
 when the peasant return home -PRON- give -PRON- wife what -PRON- have bring for -PRON- , meat and bread roll . then -PRON- give the servant girl the slipper and fancy stocking . and finally -PRON- go behind the stove and give han - -PRON- - hedgehog the bagpipe . 
 when han - -PRON- - hedgehog have -PRON- , -PRON- say , " father , go to the blacksmith 's and have -PRON- cock - rooster shod , then i will ride away and never again come back . " the father be happy to get rid of -PRON- , so -PRON- have -PRON- rooster shod , and when -PRON- be do , han - -PRON- - hedgehog climb on -PRON- and ride away . -PRON- take pig and donkey with -PRON- , to tend in the forest . 
 in the forest the rooster fly into a tall tree with -PRON- . there -PRON- sit and watch over the donkey and the pig . -PRON- sit there for year , until finally the herd have grow large . -PRON- father know nothing about -PRON- . while sit in the tree , -PRON- play -PRON- bagpipe and make beautiful music . 
 one day a king come by . -PRON- be lose and hear the music . -PRON- be amazed to hear -PRON- , and send a servant to look around and see where -PRON- be come from . -PRON- look here and there but only see a little animal sit high in a tree . -PRON- look like a rooster up there with a hedgehog sit on -PRON- make the music . 
 the king say to the servant that -PRON- should ask -PRON- why -PRON- be sit there , and if -PRON- know the way back to -PRON- kingdom . then hans - -PRON- - hedgehog climb down from the tree and tell -PRON- that -PRON- would show -PRON- the way if the king would promise in write to give -PRON- the first thing that greet -PRON- at the royal court upon -PRON- arrival home . 
 the king think , " i can do that easily enough . han - -PRON- - hedgehog can not understand writing , and i can put down what i want to . " 
 then the king take pen and ink and write something , and after -PRON- have do so , han - -PRON- - hedgehog show -PRON- the way , and -PRON- arrive safely at home . -PRON- daughter see -PRON- come from afar , and be so overjoyed that -PRON- run to meet -PRON- and kiss -PRON- . -PRON- think about han - -PRON- - hedgehog and tell -PRON- what have happen , that -PRON- be suppose to have promise the first thing that greet -PRON- to a strange animal that ride a rooster and make beautiful music . but instead -PRON- have write that this would not happen , for han - -PRON- - hedgehog could not read . the princess be happy about this , and say that -PRON- be a good thing , for -PRON- would not have go with -PRON- in any event . 
 han - -PRON- - hedgehog tend the donkey and pig , be of good cheer , and sit in the tree blow on -PRON- bagpipe . 
 now -PRON- happen that another king come this way with -PRON- servant and messenger . -PRON- too get lose and do not know the way back home because the forest be so large . -PRON- too hear the beautiful music from afar , and ask one of -PRON- messenger to go and see what -PRON- be and where -PRON- be come from . the messenger run to the tree where -PRON- see hans - -PRON- - hedgehog astride the cock - rooster . the messenger ask -PRON- what -PRON- be do up there . 
 " i be tend -PRON- donkey and pig . what be -PRON- that -PRON- want ? " reply han - -PRON- - hedgehog . 
 the messenger say that -PRON- be lose and could not find -PRON- way back to -PRON- kingdom , and ask -PRON- if -PRON- could not show -PRON- the way . 
 then han - -PRON- - hedgehog climb down from the tree with -PRON- rooster and tell the old king that -PRON- would show -PRON- the way if -PRON- would give -PRON- the thing that -PRON- first meet at home before the royal castle . 
 the king say yes and sign a promise to han - -PRON- - hedgehog . 
 when that be do , han - -PRON- - hedgehog rode ahead on -PRON- rooster show -PRON- the way , and the king safely reach -PRON- kingdom . when the king arrive at -PRON- court there be great joy . now -PRON- have an only daughter who be very beautiful . -PRON- run out to -PRON- , throw -PRON- arm around -PRON- neck and kiss -PRON- , and be ever so happy that -PRON- old father have return . 
 -PRON- ask -PRON- where -PRON- have be during -PRON- long absence , and -PRON- tell -PRON- how -PRON- have lose -PRON- way and almost not make -PRON- home again , but that as -PRON- be make -PRON- way through a great forest -PRON- have come upon a half hedgehog , half human astride a rooster sit in a tall tree and make beautiful music who have show -PRON- the way , but whom -PRON- have promise whatev first meet -PRON- at the royal court , and -PRON- be -PRON- -PRON- , and -PRON- be terribly sorry . 
 but -PRON- promise that -PRON- would go with -PRON- when -PRON- come , for the love of -PRON- old father . 
 han - -PRON- - hedgehog tend -PRON- pig , and the pig have more pig , until there be so many that the whole forest be full . then hans - -PRON- - hedgehog let -PRON- father know that -PRON- should empty out all the stall in the village , because -PRON- be come with such a large herd of pig that everyone who want to would be able to take part in the slaughter . 
 -PRON- sadden the father to hear this , for -PRON- think that han - -PRON- - hedgehog have long since die . but han - -PRON- - hedgehog mount -PRON- cock - rooster , drive the pig ahead of -PRON- into the village , and have -PRON- butcher . what a slaughter ! what a commotion ! -PRON- could hear the noise two hour away ! 
 afterward han - -PRON- - hedgehog say , " father , have -PRON- cock - rooster shod a second time at the blacksmith 's . then i will ride away and not come back again as long as i live . " so the father have the cock - rooster shod , and be happy that hans - -PRON- - hedgehog be not come back . 
 han - -PRON- - hedgehog ride into the first kingdom . the king have order that if anyone should approach who be carry bagpipe and rid on a rooster , that -PRON- should be shoot at , strike down , and stab , to prevent -PRON- from enter the castle . thus when han - -PRON- - hedgehog ride up , -PRON- attack -PRON- with bayonet , but -PRON- spur -PRON- rooster on , fly over the gate and up to the king 's window . land there , -PRON- shout to -PRON- , to give -PRON- what -PRON- have promise , or -PRON- would cost -PRON- and -PRON- daughter -PRON- life . 
 then the king tell the princess to go out to -PRON- , in order to save -PRON- life and -PRON- own as well . -PRON- put on a white dress , and -PRON- father give -PRON- a carriage with six horse , magnificent servant , money , and property . -PRON- climb aboard and han - -PRON- - hedgehog take -PRON- place beside -PRON- with -PRON- rooster and bagpipe . -PRON- say farewell and drive off . 
 the king think that -PRON- would never see -PRON- again . however , -PRON- do not go as -PRON- think -PRON- would , for when -PRON- have travel a short distance from the city , hans - -PRON- - hedgehog pull off -PRON- beautiful clothe and stick -PRON- with -PRON- quill until -PRON- be bloody all over . " this be the reward for -PRON- deceit . go away . i do not want -PRON- . " with that -PRON- send -PRON- back home , and -PRON- be curse as long as -PRON- live . 
 han - -PRON- - hedgehog , astride -PRON- cock - rooster and carry -PRON- bagpipe , ride on to the second kingdom where -PRON- have also help the king find -PRON- way . this one , in contrast , have order that if anyone look like han - -PRON- - hedgehog should arrive , -PRON- should be salute and bring to the royal castle with honor and with a military escort . 
 when the princess see -PRON- -PRON- be horrified , because -PRON- look so strange , but -PRON- think that nothing could be do about -PRON- , because -PRON- have promise -PRON- father to go with -PRON- . -PRON- welcome hans - -PRON- - hedgehog , and -PRON- be marry . then -PRON- be take to the royal table , and -PRON- sit next to -PRON- while -PRON- eat and drink . 
 that evening when -PRON- be time to go to bed , -PRON- be afraid of -PRON- quill , but -PRON- tell -PRON- to have no fear , for -PRON- would not hurt -PRON- . -PRON- tell the old king to have four man keep watch by -PRON- bedroom door . -PRON- should make a large fire . -PRON- say that -PRON- would take off -PRON- hedgehog skin after go into the bedroom , and before get into bed . the man should immediately pick -PRON- up and throw -PRON- into the fire , and then stay there until -PRON- be completely consume by the fire . 
 when the clock strike eleven , -PRON- go into the bedroom , take off the hedgehog skin , and lay -PRON- down by the bed . the man rush in , grab -PRON- , and throw -PRON- into the fire , and as soon as the fire consume -PRON- , -PRON- be redeem , and -PRON- lie there in bed entirely in the shape of a human . but -PRON- be as black as coal , as though -PRON- have be char . the king send for -PRON- physician , who wash -PRON- with good salve and balm . then -PRON- become white and be a handsome young gentleman . 
 when the princess see what have happen , -PRON- be overjoy , and -PRON- get up and eat and drank . now -PRON- wedding be celebrate for real , and han - -PRON- - hedgehog inherit the old king 's kingdom . 
 some year later -PRON- travel with -PRON- wife to -PRON- father , and say that -PRON- be -PRON- son . but the father say that -PRON- do not have a son . -PRON- have have one , but -PRON- have be bear with quill like a hedgehog and have go off into the world . then -PRON- say that -PRON- be the one , and the old father rejoice and return with -PRON- to -PRON- kingdom . 


 the burial shirt 

 a mother have a little boy of seven year who be so attractive and good natured that no one could look at -PRON- without like -PRON- , and -PRON- be dearer to -PRON- than anything else in the world . -PRON- suddenly die , and the mother could find no solace . -PRON- cry day and night . however , soon after -PRON- burial , the child begin to appear every night at those place where -PRON- have sit and play while still alive . when the mother cry , -PRON- cry as well , but when morning come -PRON- have disappear . 
 the mother do not cease cry , and one night -PRON- appear with the white shirt in which -PRON- have be lay into -PRON- coffin , and with the little wreath on -PRON- head . -PRON- sit down on the bed at -PRON- foot and say , " oh , mother , please stop cry , or i will not be able to fall asleep in -PRON- coffin , because -PRON- burial shirt will not dry out from -PRON- tear that keep fall on -PRON- . " this startle the mother , and -PRON- stop cry . 

 the jew in the thorn 

 when -PRON- year be over , -PRON- master give -PRON- no wage , think , " that be the smart thing to do , for -PRON- will save -PRON- something . -PRON- will not leave -PRON- , but will gladly stay here work for -PRON- . " 
 the servant say nothing , but do -PRON- work the second year as -PRON- have do before , and when at the end of this year -PRON- again receive no wage , -PRON- still stay on without complain . when the third year have pass , the master think -PRON- over , then put -PRON- hand into -PRON- pocket , but pull out nothing . 
 however , this time the servant say , " master , i have serve -PRON- honestly for three year . be so good as to give -PRON- what by right i have come to -PRON- . i would like to be on -PRON- way and see something else of the world . " 
 " yes , -PRON- good servant , " answer the old miser , " -PRON- have serve -PRON- without complaint , and -PRON- shall be kindly reward . " 
 with this -PRON- put -PRON- hand into -PRON- pocket , then count out three heller one at a time , say , " there , -PRON- have a heller for each year . that be a large and generous reward . only a few master would pay -PRON- this much . " 
 the good servant , who understand little about money , put -PRON- wealth into -PRON- pocket , and think , " ah , now that i have a full purse , why should i worry and continue to plague -PRON- with hard work ? " 
 so -PRON- set forth , uphill and down , singing and jump for joy . 
 now -PRON- come to pass that as -PRON- be pass by a thicket a little dwarf step out , and call to -PRON- , " where be -PRON- head , brother merry ? -PRON- do not seem to be burden down with care . " 
 " why should i be sad ? " answer the servant . " i have everything i ne . three year ' wage be jingle in -PRON- pocket . 
 " how much be -PRON- treasure ? " the dwarf ask -PRON- . 
 " how much ? three heller in real money , precisely count . " 
 " listen , " say the dwarf , " i be a poor and needy man . give -PRON- -PRON- three heller . i can no longer work , but -PRON- be young and can easily earn -PRON- bread . " 
 now because the servant have a good heart and feel pity for the dwarf , -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- three heller , say , " in god 's name , i will not miss -PRON- . " 
 then the dwarf say , " because i see that -PRON- have a good heart i will grant -PRON- three wish , one for each heller . -PRON- shall all be fulfil . " 
 " aha , " say the servant . " -PRON- be a miracle worker . well , then , if -PRON- be to be so , first of all i wish for a blowpipe that will hit everything i aim at ; second , for a fiddle , that when i play -PRON- , anyone who hear -PRON- will have to dance ; and third , that whenever i ask a favor of anyone , -PRON- will be grant . " 
 " -PRON- shall have all that , " say the dwarf . -PRON- reach into the bush , and what do -PRON- think , there lie a fiddle and a blowpipe , all ready , just as if -PRON- have be order . -PRON- give -PRON- to the servant , say , " no one will ever be able to deny any request that -PRON- may make . " 
 " what more could -PRON- heart desire ? " say the servant to -PRON- , and go merrily on -PRON- way . 
 soon afterward -PRON- meet a jew with a long goatee , who be stand listen to a bird sing high up in the top of a tree . 
 " one of god 's own miracle , " -PRON- shout , " that such a small creature should have such a fearfully loud voice . if only -PRON- be -PRON- ! if only someone would sprinkle some salt on -PRON- tail ! " 
 " if that be all -PRON- want , " say the servant , " then the bird shall soon be down here . " -PRON- take aim , hit -PRON- precisely , and the bird fall down into a thorn hedge . 
 " rogue , " -PRON- say to the jew , " go and fetch the bird out for -PRON- . " 
 " -PRON- goodness , " say the jew , " do n't call -PRON- a rogue , sir , but i will be the dog and get the bird out for -PRON- . after all , -PRON- be the one who shoot -PRON- . " 
 then -PRON- lie down on the ground and begin crawl into the thicket . when -PRON- be in the middle of the thorn , the good servant could not resist the temptation to pick up -PRON- fiddle and begin to play . 
 the jew 's leg immediately begin to move , and -PRON- jump up . the more the servant fiddle the good go the dance . however , the thorn rip apart the jew 's shabby coat , comb -PRON- beard , and prick and pinch -PRON- all over -PRON- body . 
 " -PRON- goodness , " cry the jew , " what do i want with -PRON- fiddling ? stop play , sir . i do not want to dance . " 
 but the servant do not listen to -PRON- , and think , " -PRON- have fleece people often enough , and now the thorn hedge shall do the same to -PRON- . " -PRON- begin to play all over again , so that the jew have to jump even higher , leave scrap from -PRON- coat hang on the thorn . 
 " oh , woe be -PRON- ! " cry the jew . " i will give the gentleman anything -PRON- ask , if only -PRON- quit fiddle , even a purse fill with gold . " 
 " if -PRON- be so generous , " say the servant , " then i will stop -PRON- music . but i must praise the singular way that -PRON- dance to -PRON- . " then -PRON- take -PRON- purse -PRON- go on -PRON- way . 
 the jew stand there quietly watch the servant until -PRON- be far off and out of sight , and then -PRON- scream out with all -PRON- might , " -PRON- miserable musician , -PRON- beer - house fiddler ! wait until i catch -PRON- alone . i will chase -PRON- until -PRON- wear the sol off -PRON- shoe . -PRON- ragamuffin , just put a groschen in -PRON- mouth , so that -PRON- will be worth six heller . " -PRON- continue to curse as fast as -PRON- could speak . as soon as -PRON- have thus refresh -PRON- a little , and catch -PRON- breath again , -PRON- run into the town to the judge . 
 " judge , sir , " -PRON- say , " oh , woe be -PRON- ! see how a godless man have rob -PRON- and abuse -PRON- on the open road . a stone on the ground would feel sorry for -PRON- . -PRON- clothe be rip into shred . -PRON- body be prick and scratch to piece . and what little i own have be take away with -PRON- purse -- genuine ducat , each piece more beautiful than the other . for god 's sake , let the man be throw into prison . " 
 the judge ask , " be -PRON- a soldier who cut -PRON- up like that with -PRON- saber ? " 
 " god forbid , " say the jew . " -PRON- do not have a naked dagger , but rather a blowpipe hang from -PRON- back , and a fiddle from -PRON- neck . the scoundrel can easily be recognize . " 
 the judge send -PRON- people out after -PRON- . -PRON- find the good servant , who have be walk along quite slowly . and -PRON- find the purse with the money on -PRON- as well . 
 when -PRON- be bring before the judge -PRON- say , " i do not touch the jew , nor take -PRON- money . -PRON- offer -PRON- to -PRON- freely , so that i would stop fiddle , because -PRON- could not stand -PRON- music . " 
 " god forbid ! " cry the jew . " -PRON- be reach for lie like fly on the wall . " 
 the judge do not believe -PRON- story , and say , " that be a poor excuse . no jew would do that . " and because -PRON- have commit robbery on the open road , the good servant be sentence to the gallow . 
 as -PRON- be be lead away , the jew scream after -PRON- , " -PRON- good - for - nothing . -PRON- dog of a musician . now -PRON- will receive -PRON- well earn reward . " 
 the servant walk quietly up the ladder with the hangman , but on the last rung -PRON- turn around and say to the judge , " grant -PRON- just one request before i die . " 
 " yes , " say the judge , " if -PRON- do not ask for -PRON- life . " 
 " i do not ask for life , " answer the servant , " but let -PRON- play -PRON- fiddle one last time . " 
 the jew cry out miserably , " for god 's sake , do not allow -PRON- ! do not allow -PRON- ! " 
 but the judge say , " why should i not grant -PRON- this short pleasure ? -PRON- have be promise to -PRON- , and -PRON- shall have -PRON- . " in any event , -PRON- could not have refuse because of the gift that have be bestow on the servant . 
 the jew cry , " oh , woe be -PRON- ! tie -PRON- up . tie -PRON- up tightly . " 
 the good servant take -PRON- fiddle from -PRON- neck , and make ready . as -PRON- play the first stroke , -PRON- all begin to quiver and shake : the judge , the clerk , and the court official . the rope fall out of the hand of the one who be go to tie up the jew . 
 at the second stroke -PRON- all lift -PRON- leg . the hangman release the good servant and make ready to dance . 
 at the third stroke everyone jump up and begin to dance . the judge and the jew be out in front and be the good at jump . soon everyone who have gather in the marketplace out of curiosity be dance with -PRON- , old and young , fat and thin , all together with each other . even the dog that have run along with the crowd stand up on -PRON- hind leg and hop along as well . the longer -PRON- play , the high the dancer jump , until -PRON- be knock -PRON- head together and cry out terribly . 
 finally the judge , quite out of breath , shout , " i will give -PRON- -PRON- life , but just stop fiddle . " 
 the good servant listen to this , then take -PRON- fiddle , hang -PRON- around -PRON- neck again , and climb down the ladder . -PRON- go up to the jew , who be lie upon the ground gasp for air , and say , " -PRON- rogue , now confess where -PRON- get the money , or i will take -PRON- fiddle off -PRON- neck and begin to play again . " 
 " i steal -PRON- . i steal -PRON- , " -PRON- cry . " but -PRON- have honestly earn -PRON- . " 
 with that the judge have the jew lead to the gallow and hang as a thief . 

 fair katrinelje and pif paf poltrie 

 " many thank , pif paf poltrie . " 
 " may i marry -PRON- daughter ? " 
 " oh , yes , if -PRON- mother milk - cow , -PRON- brother high - pride , -PRON- sister cheese - love , and fair katrinelje be willing , the wedding can take place . " 
 " where be -PRON- mother milk - cow , then ? " 
 " -PRON- be in the stall milk the cow . " 
 " good day , mother milk - cow . " 
 " many thank , pif paf poltrie . " 
 " may i marry -PRON- daughter ? " 
 " oh , yes , if father elderberry - tea , brother high - pride , sister cheese - love , and fair katrinelje be willing , the wedding can take place . " 
 " where be -PRON- brother high - pride , then ? " 
 " -PRON- be in the shed chop wood . " 
 " good - day , brother high - pride . " 
 " many thank , pif paf poltrie . " 
 " may i marry -PRON- sister ? " 
 " oh , yes , if father elderberry - tea , mother milk - cow , sister cheese - love , and fair katrinelje be willing , the wedding can take place . " 
 " where be -PRON- sister cheese - love , then ? " 
 " -PRON- be in the garden cut cabbage . " 
 " good - day , sister cheese - love . " 
 " many thank , pif paf poltrie . " 
 " may i marry -PRON- sister ? " 
 " oh , yes , if father elderberry - tea , mother milk - cow , brother high - pride , and fair katrinelje be willing , the wedding can take place . " 
 " where be fair katrinelje , then . " 
 " -PRON- be in the parlor count out -PRON- penny . " 
 " good day , fair katrinelje . " 
 " many thank , pif paf poltrie . " 
 " will -PRON- be -PRON- sweetheart ? " 
 " oh , yes , if father elderberry - tea , mother milk - cow , brother high - pride , and sister cheese - love be willing , the wedding can take place . " 
 " fair katrinelje , what do -PRON- have for a dowry ? " 
 " fourteen penny in hand , three and a half groschen owe to -PRON- , a half pound of dry pear , a handful of pretzel , and a handful of root , and so -PRON- be . be that not a fine dowry ? 
 " pif paf poltrie , what be -PRON- trade ? be -PRON- a tailor ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " a cobbler ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " a plowman ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " a joiner ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " a smith ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " a miller ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " perhaps a broom - maker ? " 
 " yes , that be what i be . be that not a fine trade ? " 

 the little lamb and the little fish 

 -PRON- so happen that the two of -PRON- be play with other child in   a meadow in front -PRON- house . there be a pond in the meadow that come up   to one side of the house . the child run around -PRON- , catch one another ,   and play a counting out game : 

 while play this game -PRON- stand in a circle , and the one to whom   -PRON- be point when -PRON- say " cut -PRON- up " have to run away , and all   the other would run after -PRON- and catch -PRON- . while -PRON- be thus run   about so joyfully the stepmother be watch -PRON- from the window , and   grow angry . because -PRON- understand the art of witchcraft -PRON- bewitch   -PRON- both , transform the little brother into a fish , and the little   sister into a lamb . 
 the little fish swim back and forth in the pond and be sad , and the   little lamb walk back and forth in the meadow and be sad , and would not   eat . -PRON- would not even touch one blade of grass . thus a long time pass ,   and then some stranger come as guest to the castle . 
 the treacherous stepmother think , " now be -PRON- chance , " and call the   cook and say to -PRON- , " go and fetch the lamb from the meadow and slaughter   -PRON- . -PRON- have nothing else for -PRON- guest . " 
 the cook go and get the little lamb , take -PRON- into the kitchen , and   tie -PRON- foot together . -PRON- bear all this patiently . the cook then take   out -PRON- knife and be whet -PRON- on the doorstep in order to kill the   little lamb when -PRON- see how a little fish be swim back and forth in   the water in front of the gutter and look up at -PRON- . this be the   little brother , for when the little fish see the cook take the little lamb   away , -PRON- follow -PRON- , swimming along the pond as far as the house . 
 then the little lamb cry down to -PRON- : 

 the little fish answer : 

 when the cook hear that the little lamb could speak , say such sad   word to the little fish down below , -PRON- be frighten and think that   this could not be an ordinary little lamb , but must have be bewitch by   the wicked woman in the house . 
 -PRON- say , " do n't worry . i will not kill -PRON- . " 
 then -PRON- take another animal and prepare -PRON- for the guest , after which   -PRON- take the little lamb to a good peasant woman and tell -PRON- everything   that -PRON- have see and hear . 
 now this peasant woman have be the wet nurse for the little sister ,   and -PRON- suspect at once who the little lamb be , and take -PRON- with -PRON-   to a wise woman . the wise woman pronounce a blessing over the little lamb   and the little fish , and -PRON- regain -PRON- human form . after this -PRON-   take -PRON- both to a little hut in a large forest , where -PRON- live by   -PRON- , contented and happy . 

 the three lazy one 

 when the time come for -PRON- to die -PRON- call -PRON- to -PRON- bed and say ,   " dear child , i have think of something that i will   reveal to -PRON- .   the one of -PRON- be the lazy shall become king after -PRON- . " 
 the old one say , " father , then the kingdom belong to -PRON- , for i be   so lazy that whenever i lie down to sleep , and a drop fall into -PRON- eye ,   i will not even close -PRON- so that i can fall asleep . " 
 the second one say , " father , the kingdom belong to -PRON- , for i be so   lazy that when i be sit by the fire warm -PRON- , i would rather let   -PRON- heel burn up than to pull -PRON- leg back . " 
 the third one say , " father , the kingdom be mine , for i be so lazy that   if i be go to be hang and already have the rope around -PRON- neck , and   someone put into -PRON- hand a sharp knife with which to cut the rope , i would   let -PRON- be hang rather than to lift -PRON- hand up to the rope . " 
 when the father hear this -PRON- say , " -PRON- have take -PRON- the farth and   shall be king . " 

 the blue light 

 once upon a time there be a soldier who have serve the king loyally   for many long year . when the war be   over and the soldier could no longer serve because of the many wound -PRON-   have receive , the king say to -PRON- , " -PRON-   can go home now . i no longer ne -PRON- . there will be no more money for   -PRON- , because wage be only for those   who earn -PRON- . " 
 because the soldier do not know how -PRON- could earn a living , -PRON- sadly   walk the whole day long , until -PRON-   come to a forest in the evening . as darkness fall -PRON- see a light . -PRON-   approach -PRON- and come to a little house , where   a witch live . " give -PRON- a night 's shelter and a little to eat and drink , "   -PRON- say to -PRON- , " otherwise i will perish . " 
 " oho ! " -PRON- answer . " who give anything to a runaway soldier ? but i   will have pity and take -PRON- in after all , if   -PRON- will do what i ask of -PRON- . " 
 " what do -PRON- want ? " ask the soldier . 
 " for -PRON- to dig up -PRON- garden tomorrow . " 
 the soldier agree , and the next day -PRON- work with all -PRON- might , but   could not finish before evening . " i see , "   say the witch , " that -PRON- can do no more work today . i will take -PRON- in   for one more night if tomorrow -PRON- will cut   up and split a stack of wood for -PRON- . " 
 the soldier take the entire day to do this , and that evening the witch   propose that -PRON- remain a third night .   " tomorrow i have only a small task for -PRON- . behind -PRON- house there be a dry   well into which -PRON- light have fall . -PRON-   burn blue and never go out . i want -PRON- to get -PRON- for -PRON- . " 
 the next day the old woman lead -PRON- to the well and lower -PRON- down -PRON-   in a basket . -PRON- find the blue light   and give a sign that -PRON- should pull -PRON- up again . and -PRON- do pull -PRON-   up , but when -PRON- be close to the edge , -PRON-   want to take the blue light from -PRON- . " no , " -PRON- say , sense -PRON- evil   thought , " i shall not give -PRON- the light until   i be stand on the ground with both foot . " 
 then the witch become furious , let -PRON- fall back into the well , and   walk away . the poor soldier fall to the   damp floor without be injure . the blue light continue to burn , but   how could that help -PRON- ? -PRON- see that   would not be able to escape death . -PRON- sadly sit there for a while . then -PRON-   happen to reach into -PRON- pocket and   find -PRON- tobacco pipe , which be still half full . " this will be -PRON- last   pleasure , " -PRON- think , pull -PRON- out , light -PRON-   with the blue light , and begin to smoke . 
 after the fume have waft about the cavern , suddenly there stand   before -PRON- a little black dwarf , who say ,   " master , what do -PRON- command ? " 
 " why should i command -PRON- ? " reply the bewildered soldier . 
 " i must do everything that -PRON- demand , " say the dwarf . " 
 " good , " say the soldier , " then first help -PRON- out of this well . " 
 the dwarf take -PRON- by the hand and lead -PRON- through an underground   passage , and -PRON- do not forget to take   the blue light with -PRON- . along the way -PRON- show -PRON- the treasure that   the witch have collect and hide   there , and the soldier take as much gold as -PRON- could carry . when -PRON- be   above ground , -PRON- say to the dwarf , " now   go and bind the old witch and take -PRON- to the judge . " 
 not long afterward -PRON- come rid by on a tomcat as fast as the wind   and scream horribly . and not long   after that the dwarf be back . " -PRON- be all take care of , " -PRON- say . " the   witch be hang on the gallow . master , what   do -PRON- command now ? " 
 " nothing at the moment , " answer the soldier . " -PRON- can go home , but be   ready when i call -PRON- . " 
 " -PRON- be only necessary , " say the dwarf , " for -PRON- to light -PRON- pipe   with the blue light , and i will be with -PRON- . "   with that -PRON- disappear before -PRON- very eye . 
 the soldier return to the city from which -PRON- have come . -PRON- move into   the good inn and have beautiful   clothe make for -PRON- . then -PRON- tell the innkeeper to furnish -PRON- room   as luxuriously as possible . when -PRON- be   finish -PRON- summon the black dwarf and say , " i serve the king loyally ,   but -PRON- send -PRON- away to starve . for this   i now want revenge . " 
 " what be i to do ? " ask the little man . 
 " late this evening , when the king 's daughter be lie in bed , bring -PRON-   here to -PRON- in -PRON- sleep . -PRON- shall do   maid service for -PRON- . " 
 the dwarf say , " that be an easy thing for -PRON- , but a dangerous thing   for -PRON- . if -PRON- be find out , -PRON- will not go   well for -PRON- . " 
 at the strike of twelve the door open , and the dwarf carry the   king 's daughter in . 
 " aha , be that -PRON- ? " cry the soldier . " get to work now ! go fetch the   broom and sweep the room . " when -PRON-   be finish -PRON- call -PRON- to -PRON- chair , stick -PRON- foot out at -PRON- , and   say , " pull off -PRON- boot , " then throw -PRON- in   -PRON- face , and -PRON- have to pick -PRON- up and clean -PRON- and make -PRON- shine .   -PRON- do everything that -PRON- order   -PRON- to do , without resist , silently , and with half - closed eye . at the   first cock 's crow , the dwarf carry -PRON- to the   royal palace and back to -PRON- bed . 
 the next morning , after the king 's daughter have get up , -PRON- go to   -PRON- father and tell -PRON- that -PRON- have   have an amazing dream . " i be carry away through the street as fast as   lightning and take to a soldier 's room . i   have to serve as -PRON- maid and wait on -PRON- and do common work , sweep the   room , and clean -PRON- boot . -PRON- be only a   dream , but still i be as tired as if i have really do -PRON- all . " 
 " the dream could have be true , " say the king . " i will give -PRON- some   advice . fill -PRON- pocket with pea , then   make a small hole in -PRON- pocket . if -PRON- be carry away again , -PRON- will   fall out and leave a track on the   street . " 
 as the king be thus speak , the dwarf be invisibly stand nearby   and hear everything . 
 that night when -PRON- once again carry the sleep princess through the   street , a few pea do indeed fall out   of -PRON- pocket , but -PRON- do not leave a track , because the cunning dwarf   have already scatter pea in all the   street . and once again the king 's daughter have to do maid service until   the cock crow . 
 the next morning the king send -PRON- people out to look for the track ,   but -PRON- be to no end , for in all the street   there be poor child gather pea and say , " last night -PRON- rain   pea . " 
 " -PRON- must think of something else , " say the king . " leave -PRON- shoe on   when -PRON- go to bed , and before -PRON-   return from there , hide one of -PRON- . i will be sure to find -PRON- . " 
 the black dwarf overheard this proposal , and that evening when the   soldier again want the king 's daughter   bring to -PRON- , the dwarf advise -PRON- against this , say that -PRON- have no   way to protect -PRON- against such   trickery . if the shoe be to be find in -PRON- room , -PRON- would not go well   with -PRON- . 
 " do what i tell -PRON- , " reply the soldier , and for a third night the   king 's daughter have to work like a maid . but   before -PRON- be carry back , -PRON- hide a shoe under the bed . 
 the next morning the king have the entire city search for the shoe ,   and -PRON- be find in the soldier 's room .   the soldier -PRON- , follow the little man 's request , be already   outside the city gate , but -PRON- soon overtake   -PRON- and throw -PRON- into prison . 
 in -PRON- haste , -PRON- have forget to take along -PRON- most valuable thing :   the blue light and the gold . -PRON- have only   one ducat in -PRON- pocket . stand at the window of -PRON- prison and weight   down with chain , -PRON- see one of -PRON-   comrade walk by . -PRON- knock on the glass , and as -PRON- walk by , -PRON-   say , " be so good and bring -PRON- the little   bundle that i leave at the inn . -PRON- will give -PRON- a ducat for -PRON- . " 
 the comrade run forth and bring back the desire thing . as soon as   the soldier be alone again , -PRON- light -PRON-   pipe and summon the black dwarf . " have no fear , " -PRON- say to -PRON- master .   " just go where -PRON- lead -PRON- , and let   everything happen , but take the blue light with -PRON- . " 
 the next day the soldier be try , and although -PRON- have do nothing   wrong , the judge still sentence -PRON- to   death . as -PRON- be be lead out , -PRON- ask the king for one last wish . 
 " what sort of a wish ? " ask the king . 
 " that i may smoke one more pipe on the way . " 
 " -PRON- can smoke three , " answer the king , " but do not think that i will   let -PRON- live . " 
 then the soldier pull out -PRON- pipe and light -PRON- with the blue light . as   soon as a few ring of smoke have rise ,   the dwarf be stand there . -PRON- have a cudgel in -PRON- hand and say , " what   do -PRON- master command ? " 
 " strike the false judge and -PRON- henchman to the ground for -PRON- . and   do not spare the king either , who have   treat -PRON- so badly . " 
 then the dwarf take off like lightning , zip - zap , back and forth , and   everyone -PRON- even touch with -PRON- cudgel   fall to the ground and do not dare to move . the king become afraid . -PRON-   beg for mercy , and in order to save -PRON-   life , -PRON- give to the soldier -PRON- kingdom as well as -PRON- daughter for a   wife . 


 the willful child 
 jacob and wilhelm grimm 



 the nixie in the pond 

 one morning -PRON- get up before daybreak and go outside , think that   the fresh air would lighten -PRON- heart . as -PRON- be walk across the mill   dam , the first sunbeam be just appear , and -PRON- hear something ripple   in the pond . 
 turn around , -PRON- see a beautiful woman rise slowly out of the   water . -PRON- long hair , which -PRON- be hold above -PRON- shoulder with -PRON-   soft hand , flow down on both side , and cover -PRON- white body .   -PRON- see   very well that -PRON- be the nixie of the pond , and -PRON- be so frightened   that -PRON- do not know whether to run away or stay where -PRON- be . but the   nixie , speak with a soft voice , call -PRON- by name and ask -PRON- why -PRON-   be so sad . 
 at first the miller be speechless , but when -PRON- hear -PRON- speak so   kindly , -PRON- take heart and tell -PRON- how -PRON- have live with good fortune and   wealth , but that now -PRON- be so poor that -PRON- do not know what to do . 
 " be at ease , " answer the nixie . " i will make -PRON- rich and happy   than -PRON- have ever be before . -PRON- must only promise to give -PRON- that   which have just be bear in -PRON- house . " 
 " what else can that be , " think the miller , " but a young dog or a   young cat , " and -PRON- promise -PRON- what -PRON- demand . 
 the nixie descend into the water again , and console and in good   spirit -PRON- hurry back to -PRON- mill . -PRON- have not yet arrive there when the   maid come out of the front door and call out to -PRON- that -PRON- should   rejoice , for -PRON- wife have give birth to a little boy . 
 the miller stand there as though -PRON- have be strike by lightning . -PRON-   see very well that the cunning nixie have know this and have cheat -PRON- .   with -PRON- head lower -PRON- go to -PRON- wife 's bed . when -PRON- say , " why be   -PRON- not happy with the beautiful boy ? " -PRON- tell -PRON- what have happen to   -PRON- , and what kind of a promise -PRON- have give to the nixie . 
 " what good to -PRON- be good fortune and prosperity , " -PRON- add , " if i be   to lose -PRON- child ? but what can i do ? " 
 even the relative who have come to congratulate -PRON- do not have any   advice for -PRON- . 
 in the meantime , good fortune return to the miller 's house . -PRON-   succeed in everything that -PRON- undertake . -PRON- be as though the trunk and   strongbox fill -PRON- of -PRON- own accord , and as though money in   a chest multiply overnight . before long -PRON- wealth be great than -PRON-   have ever be before . however , -PRON- do not bring -PRON- happiness without   concern , for -PRON- agreement with the nixie torment -PRON- heart . whenever -PRON-   pass the pond -PRON- fear -PRON- may appear and demand payment of -PRON- debt . 
 -PRON- never allow the boy -PRON- to go near the water . " beware ! " -PRON-   say to -PRON- . " if -PRON- touch the water a hand will appear , take hold of -PRON- ,   and pull -PRON- under . " 
 however , year after year pass , and the nixie make no further   appearance , so the miller begin to feel at ease . 
 the boy grow up to be a young man and be apprentice to a huntsman .   when -PRON- have learn this trade and have become a skilled huntsman , the lord   of the village take -PRON- into -PRON- service . in the village there live a   beautiful and faithful maiden whom the huntsman like , and when -PRON- master   notice this , -PRON- give -PRON- a little house . the two be marry , live   peacefully and happily , and love each other sincerely . 
 one day the huntsman be pursue a deer . when the animal run out of   the wood and into an open field -PRON- follow -PRON- and finally bring -PRON-   down with a single shot . 
 -PRON- do not notice that -PRON- be in the vicinity of the dangerous   millpond , and after -PRON- have dress out the deer , -PRON- go to the water in   order to wash -PRON- blood - stain hand . however , -PRON- have scarcely dip   -PRON- into the water when the nixie emerge . laugh , -PRON- wrap -PRON- wet   arm around -PRON- , then pull -PRON- under so quickly that wave splash over   -PRON- . 
 when -PRON- be evening and the huntsman do not return home , -PRON- wife   become frightened . -PRON- go out to look for -PRON- . -PRON- have often tell -PRON-   that -PRON- have to be on -PRON- guard against the nixie 's snare , and that -PRON- do   not dare to go near the millpond , so -PRON- already suspect what have   happen . -PRON- hurry to the water , and when -PRON- find -PRON- hunting bag   lie on the bank , -PRON- could no longer have any doubt of the misfortune .   cry and wring -PRON- hand , -PRON- call -PRON- beloved by name , but to no   avail . -PRON- hurry across to the other side of the millpond , and call   -PRON- anew . -PRON- curse the nixie with harsh word , but no answer follow .   the surface of the water remain calm ; only the moon 's half face star   steadily back up at -PRON- . 
 the poor woman do not leave the pond . with fast stride , never   stop to rest , -PRON- walk around -PRON- again and again , sometimes in   silence , sometimes cry out loudly , sometimes sob softly . finally   -PRON- strength give out , and -PRON- sink down to the ground , fall into a   heavy sleep . -PRON- be soon immerse in a dream . 
 at that moment , the poor woman awake . -PRON- be already daylight , and -PRON-   decide at once to follow -PRON- dream . with difficulty -PRON- climb the   mountain , and everything be just as -PRON- have see -PRON- during the night . the   old woman receive -PRON- kindly , show -PRON- a chair where -PRON- be to sit . 
 " -PRON- must have meet with misfortune , " -PRON- say , " have seek out -PRON-   lonely cottage . " 
 the woman relate with tear what have happen to -PRON- . 
 " be comfort , " say the old woman . " i will help -PRON- . here be a golden   comb for -PRON- . wait until the full moon have rise , then go to the millpond ,   sit down on the bank and comb -PRON- long black hair with this comb . when   -PRON- be finished set -PRON- down on the bank , and -PRON- will see what will   happen . " 
 the woman return home , but the time pass slowly for -PRON- until the   full moon come . finally the shin disk appear in the heaven , and -PRON-   go out to the millpond , sit down , and comb -PRON- long black hair with   the golden comb . when -PRON- be finish -PRON- set -PRON- down at the water 's   edge . before long there come a motion from beneath the water . a wave   arise , roll onto the bank , and carry the comb away with -PRON- . in not   more time than -PRON- take for the comb to sink to the bottom , the surface of   the water part , and the huntsman 's head emerge . -PRON- say nothing , only   look at -PRON- wife with sorrowful glance . that same instant a second   wave rush up and cover -PRON- husband 's head . then everything vanish .   the millpond lie as peaceful as before , with only the face of the full   moon shin on -PRON- . 
 fill with sorrow , the woman return , but -PRON- see the old woman 's   cottage in a dream . 
 the next morning -PRON- again set out and tell -PRON- sorrow to the wise   woman . the old woman give -PRON- a golden flute , and say , " wait until the   full moon come again , then take this flute . sit on the bank and play a   beautiful tune on -PRON- . when -PRON- be finished set -PRON- in the sand . then -PRON-   will see what will happen . " 
 the woman do what the old woman have tell -PRON- to do . no sooner be the   flute lie in the sand than there be a motion from beneath the water ,   and a wave rush up and carry the flute away with -PRON- . immediately   afterwards the water part , and not only -PRON- husband 's head , but half of   -PRON- body emerge as well . -PRON- stretch out -PRON- arm longingly towards -PRON- ,   but a second wave rush up , cover -PRON- , and pull -PRON- down again . 
 " oh , what do -PRON- help -PRON- , " say the unhappy woman , " for -PRON- only to see   -PRON- beloved and then to lose -PRON- again ? " 
 despair fill -PRON- heart anew , but a dream lead -PRON- a third time to the   old woman 's house . -PRON- go there , and the wise woman give -PRON- a golden   spin wheel , comfort -PRON- , and say , " everything be not yet fulfil .   wait until the full moon come , then take the spinning wheel , sit on the   bank , and spin the spool full . when -PRON- have do this place the spinning   wheel at the water 's edge , and -PRON- will see what will happen . " 
 the woman do everything exactly as -PRON- have be tell . as soon as the   full moon appear -PRON- carry the golden spinning wheel to the bank , and   span diligently until -PRON- be out of flax , and the spool be completely   fill with thread . -PRON- have scarcely place the wheel on the bank when   there be a more violent motion than before from the water 's depth . then a   powerful wave rush up and carry the wheel away with -PRON- . 
 immediately the head and the whole body of -PRON- husband emerge in a   waterspout . -PRON- quickly jump to the bank , catch -PRON- wife by the hand ,   and flee . -PRON- have go only a little distance when the entire millpond   arise with a terrible roar , then with terrible force stream out across   the countryside . the fugitive see death before -PRON- eye , when the wife   in -PRON- terror call out for the old woman to help -PRON- , and -PRON- be   instantly transform , -PRON- into a toad , -PRON- into a frog . 
 the flood which have overtake -PRON- could not destroy -PRON- , but -PRON-   separate -PRON- and carry -PRON- far away . when the water recede and -PRON-   both reach dry land again , -PRON- human form return again , but neither   know where the other one be . -PRON- find -PRON- among strange people   who do not know -PRON- native land . high mountain and deep valley lie   between -PRON- . in order to earn a living , -PRON- both have to herd sheep . for   long year -PRON- drive -PRON- flock through field and wood , and be   fill with sorrow and longing . 
 one day when spring have once again break forth on the earth , -PRON- both   go out with -PRON- flock , and as chance would have -PRON- , -PRON- move toward   one another . -PRON- see a herd on a distant mountainside and drive -PRON- sheep   toward -PRON- . -PRON- meet in a valley but do not recognize one another , but   -PRON- be happy that -PRON- be no longer so alone . from then on every day   -PRON- drive -PRON- flock next to each other . -PRON- do not speak much , but   -PRON- do feel comfort . 
 one evening when the full moon be shin in the sky , and the sheep   be already at rest , the shepherd take -PRON- flute out of -PRON- pocket and   play on -PRON- a beautiful but sorrowful tune . when -PRON- have finish -PRON- see   that the shepherdess be cry bitterly . 
 " why be -PRON- cry ? -PRON- ask . 
 " oh , " -PRON- answer , " the full moon be shin like this when i play   that tune on the flute for the last time , and -PRON- beloved 's head emerge   out of the water . " 
 -PRON- look at -PRON- , and -PRON- be as though a veil fall from -PRON- eye . -PRON-   recognize -PRON- beloved wife , and when -PRON- look at -PRON- , with the moon   shin on -PRON- face , -PRON- recognize -PRON- as well . -PRON- embrace and kiss   one another , and no one need to ask if -PRON- be happy . 

 the seven swabian 

 all seven have decide to travel throughout the world seek adventure   and perform great deed . in order to arm -PRON- and assure -PRON-   safety , -PRON- think -PRON- would be a good thing to have a single , but very   strong and very long spear make for -PRON- . together all seven of -PRON- take   hold of this spear . the brave and most manly of -PRON- be in front , and   that have to be herr schulz . the other follow in order , with veitli   bring up the rear . 
 now one day in the month of july , when -PRON- have walk a long way but   still have a good piece to go before reach the village where -PRON- be   go to spend the night , -PRON- happen that -PRON- be in a meadow just as   -PRON- be get dark , and a large beetle or hornet fly by -PRON- from behind   a bush , buzz in a threaten manner . 
 herr schulz be so frightened that -PRON- almost let go of the spear , and a   cold sweat break out over -PRON- whole body . " listen , listen , " -PRON- shout to   -PRON- comrade . " good heaven , i hear a drum ! " 
 jackli , who be hold the spear behind -PRON- , and who have just smell   i do not know what , say , " something be here for sure . i can smell the   powder and the fuse . " 
 hear these word , herr schulz begin to run away , and -PRON- quickly   jump over a fence , land right on the tooth of a rake that have be   leave lie there from haymaking . the handle hit -PRON- in the face with a   tremendous blow . 
 " oh dear , oh dear , " scream master schulz . " take -PRON- prisoner ! i   surrender ! i surrender ! " 
 the other six all jump toward -PRON- , one over the other , scream , " if   -PRON- surrender , i surrender too . if -PRON- surrender , i surrender too . " 
 but no enemy be there to bind -PRON- and take -PRON- away , so -PRON- finally   see that -PRON- have be deceive . to keep the story from get out and   cause -PRON- to look foolish and to be ridicule , -PRON- all swear to one   another that -PRON- would say nothing about -PRON- until one of -PRON- should open   -PRON- mouth by mistake . 
 then -PRON- travel onward . 
 the second danger that -PRON- experience can not be compare to the first   one . a few day later -PRON- path lead -PRON- across an unplowed field where a   hare be sit asleep in the sun . -PRON- ear be stand straight up ,   and -PRON- large glassy eye be wide open . 
 all of -PRON- be frighten at the sight of this terrible wild beast ,   and -PRON- discuss with one another what would be the least dangerous   thing to do . if -PRON- be to run away , -PRON- fear that the monster would   pursue -PRON- and devour -PRON- all , even -PRON- skin and hair . 
 so -PRON- say , " -PRON- will have to fight a great and dangerous battle . well   begin be half do ! " 
 then all seven take hold of the spear , herr schulz in front and veitli   at the rear . herr schulz be always try to hold the spear back , but at   the rear veitli have become quite brave , and want to break loose . -PRON-   shout : 
 but han know how to answer this , and -PRON- say : 
 michal shout : 
 then -PRON- be jergli 's turn , and -PRON- say : 
 then marli have a good idea , and -PRON- say to veitli : 
 veitli , however , do not obey , and jackli say : 
 then herrr schulz take courage , and say : 
 then all together -PRON- attack the dragon . herr schulz cross -PRON-   and pray to god for assistance , but none of this help , so , approach   the enemy , -PRON- scream in great fear , " oh , oh , oh , oh ! " 
 this awaken the hare , and the frightened animal dart swiftly away .   when herr schulz see -PRON- thus flee from the battlefield , -PRON- shout out   joyfully : 
 then the band of swabian go in search of further adventure , and -PRON-   come to the mosel , a mossy , still , deep river . there be only a few   bridge over -PRON- , and in many place people have to cross -PRON- by boat . the   seven swabian do not know this , so -PRON- shout to a man who be work   on the opposite side of the river , and ask -PRON- how to get across . 
 because of the distance and -PRON- language , the man do not understand   what -PRON- want , and -PRON- ask , in the dialect of trier , " wat ? wat ? " 
 herr schulz think -PRON- be say , " wade . wade through the water , " and   because -PRON- be in front , -PRON- set forth and begin walk into the mosel .   before long -PRON- sink into the mud and into the deep wave that be drive   against -PRON- . however , the wind blow -PRON- hat to the opposite shore . a frog   sit down beside -PRON- , and croak , " wat , wat , wat . " 
 the other six hear this from the other side and say , " aha , -PRON-   comrade herr schulz be call -PRON- . if -PRON- can wade across , then why can not   -PRON- ? " 
 so in a rush and all together -PRON- jump into the water and drown . 
 thus one frog take the life of all six of -PRON- , and not one of the   band of swabian ever come home again . 

 the old woman in the wood 

 -PRON- begin to weep bitterly , and say , " what can a poor girl like -PRON- do now ? i do not know the way out of the wood . no human be life here , so -PRON- will most certainly starve to death . " 
 -PRON- walk about look for a pathway , but could not find one . when evening fall -PRON- sit down beneath a tree , commend -PRON- to god , and decide to remain seated there and not go away , whatev may happen . after -PRON- have sit there a while , a little white dove fly up to -PRON- with a little golden key in -PRON- beak . -PRON- put the little key in -PRON- hand , say , " do -PRON- see that large tree over there ? a little lock be on -PRON- . open -PRON- with this little key , and -PRON- will find food enough to still -PRON- hunger . " 
 then -PRON- go to the tree and unlock -PRON- , and find milk in a little bowl , and white bread to break into -PRON- , so that -PRON- could eat -PRON- fill . when -PRON- be satisfied , -PRON- say , " -PRON- be now the time when the hen at home go to roost , i be so tired that i would like to lie down in -PRON- bed as well . " 
 then the little dove fly to -PRON- again , bring another little golden key in -PRON- bill . -PRON- say , " open that tree over there , and -PRON- will find a bed . " 
 -PRON- open -PRON- , and find a beautiful white bed . then -PRON- pray to god for protection during the night , lie down , and fall asleep . 
 in the morning the little dove come for the third time , again bring a little key . -PRON- say , " open that tree over there , and -PRON- will find clothe . " 
 upon open -PRON- -PRON- find garment trim with gold and with jewel , more splendid than those of any princess . thus -PRON- live there for some time . the little dove come every day , provide -PRON- with everything that -PRON- need . -PRON- be a peaceful , good life . 
 then one day the little dove come and say , " will -PRON- do -PRON- a favor ? " 
 " gladly , with all -PRON- heart , " say the girl . 
 then the little dove say , " i will lead -PRON- to a little house . go inside , where an old woman will be sit by the fireplace . -PRON- will say , ' good day . ' but on -PRON- life do not answer -PRON- , in spite of whatever -PRON- may do . pass by -PRON- on -PRON- right - hand side where there be a door . open -PRON- and -PRON- will enter into a room where there be all kind of ring lie on a table . some of these be some splendid one with glistening stone . leave -PRON- where -PRON- be and seek out a simple one which must be among -PRON- , then bring -PRON- here to -PRON- as quickly as -PRON- can . " 
 the girl go to the little house , and enter in at the door . an old woman be sit there . when -PRON- see the girl -PRON- glare at -PRON- and say , " good day , -PRON- child . " 
 the girl do not answer , but approach the door . 
 " where be -PRON- go ? " cry the old woman , and grab -PRON- skirt , try to hold -PRON- fast . -PRON- say , " this be -PRON- house , and no one can go in there if i do not want -PRON- to . " 
 but the girl say nothing , pull away from -PRON- , and go directly into the room . on the table there be an enormous quantity of ring , which glisten and glitter before -PRON- eye . -PRON- stir through -PRON- look for the simple one , but -PRON- could not find -PRON- . while -PRON- be thus seek , -PRON- see the old woman sneak by , try to make off with a bird cage which -PRON- have in -PRON- hand . the girl go up to -PRON- and take the cage out of -PRON- hand . lift -PRON- up and look inside -PRON- , -PRON- see a bird with the simple ring in -PRON- beak . 
 -PRON- take the ring , and happily run out of the house with -PRON- . -PRON- think that the little white dove would come and get the ring , but -PRON- do not . then -PRON- lean against a tree , determined to wait for the dove . as -PRON- stand there , -PRON- seem that the tree be become soft and flexible , and be let -PRON- branch down . 
 suddenly the branch wrap -PRON- around -PRON- , and have become two arm . look around , -PRON- see that the tree have turn into a handsome man , who embrace -PRON- and kiss -PRON- tenderly . 
 -PRON- say , " -PRON- have deliver -PRON- from the power of the old woman , who be a wicked witch . -PRON- have turn -PRON- into a tree , and for a few hour every day i be a white dove . as long as -PRON- possess the ring i could not regain -PRON- human form . " 
 then -PRON- servant and -PRON- horse , who have likewise be change into tree , be free from the magic spell as -PRON- , and be stand there beside -PRON- . then -PRON- travel to -PRON- kingdom , for -PRON- be a prince , and -PRON- marry , and live happily . 

 simeli mountain 

 one day -PRON- be push -PRON- cart through the forest when off to the side   -PRON- see a large bare mountain . -PRON- have never see -PRON- before , so -PRON- stop   and look at -PRON- with amazement . while -PRON- be stand there -PRON- see twelve   tall wild man approach . think that -PRON- be robber , -PRON- push -PRON-   cart into the thicket , climb up a tree , and wait to see what would   happen . 
 the twelve man go to the mountain and cry out , " mount semsi , mount   semsi , open up . " the barren mountain immediately separate down the   middle . the twelve man walk into -PRON- , and as soon as -PRON- be inside -PRON-   shut . 
 a little while later -PRON- open again , and the man come out carry   heavy sack on -PRON- back . as soon as -PRON- be all back in the daylight   -PRON- say , " mount semsi , mount semsi , close . " then the mountain go back   together , and the entrance could no longer be see . then the twelve man   go away . 
 when -PRON- be completely out of sight , the poor man climb down from   the tree . -PRON- be curious to know what secret be hide in the mountain ,   so -PRON- go up to -PRON- and say , " mount semsi , mount semsi , open up , " and   the mountain open up for -PRON- as well . 
 -PRON- go inside , and the entire mountain be a cavern full of silver and   gold , and in the back of the cavern there lie great pile of pearl and   sparkle jewel , pile up like grain . the poor man do not know what -PRON-   should do , whether or not -PRON- could take any of these treasure for   -PRON- . at last -PRON- fill -PRON- pocket with gold , but -PRON- leave the pearl   and precious stone lie where -PRON- be . 
 upon leave -PRON- too say , " mount semsi , mount semsi , close , " and the   mountain close . then -PRON- go home with -PRON- cart . 
 -PRON- no longer have any care , for with -PRON- gold -PRON- could buy bread for   -PRON- wife and child , and wine as well . -PRON- live happily and honestly ,   give to the poor , and do good for everyone . when -PRON- run out of money -PRON-   go to -PRON- brother , borrow a bushel , and get some more money , but do   not touch any of the very valuable thing . when -PRON- want to get some more   money for the third time -PRON- again borrow the bushel from -PRON- brother .   however , the rich man have long be envious of -PRON- brother 's wealth and of   the fine household that -PRON- have furnish for -PRON- . -PRON- could not   understand where the rich come from , and what -PRON- brother want with   the bushel . then -PRON- think of a trap . -PRON- cover the bottom of the bushel   with pitch , and when -PRON- get the bushel back a gold coin be stick to   -PRON- . 
 -PRON- at once go to -PRON- brother and ask -PRON- , " what have -PRON- be   measure in the bushel ? " 
 " wheat and barley , " say the poor brother . 
 then -PRON- show -PRON- the gold coin and threaten that if -PRON- do not tell   the truth -PRON- would bring charge against -PRON- before the court . then the   poor man then tell -PRON- everything that have happen to -PRON- . the rich man   immediately have -PRON- wagon hitch up and drive away , intend to do   good than -PRON- brother have do , and to bring back with -PRON- quite   different treasure . 
 when -PRON- come to the mountain -PRON- cry out , " mount semsi , mount semsi ,   open up . " 
 the mountain open , and -PRON- go inside . there lie the rich all   before -PRON- , and for a long time -PRON- do not know what -PRON- should take hold   of first . finally take as many precious stone as -PRON- could carry . -PRON-   want to carry -PRON- load outside , but as -PRON- heart and soul be entirely   occupy with the treasure , -PRON- have forget the name of the mountain ,   and cry out , " mount simeli , mount simeli , open up . " 
 but that be not the right name , and the mountain do not move ,   remain close instead . -PRON- become frightened , and the longer -PRON- think   about -PRON- the more -PRON- become confused , and all of the treasure be of no   use to -PRON- . 
 in the evening the mountain open up , and the twelve robber come   inside . when -PRON- see -PRON- -PRON- laugh and cry out , " bird , -PRON- have -PRON-   at last . do -PRON- think -PRON- do not notice that -PRON- come here twice ? -PRON-   could not catch -PRON- then , this third time -PRON- shall not get out again . " 
 -PRON- cry out , " i be not the one . -PRON- be -PRON- brother ! " 
 but however much -PRON- beg for -PRON- life , and in spite of everything   that -PRON- say , -PRON- cut off -PRON- head . 

 the clever servant 

 a clever hans of this kind be once send out by -PRON- master to look for   a lost cow . -PRON- stay away a long time , and the master think , " -PRON-   faithful han be not spar any pain with -PRON- work . " 
 but when -PRON- do not return at all , the master be afraid that something   have happen to -PRON- , and -PRON- -PRON- go out to look for -PRON- . 
 -PRON- have to look for a long time , but at last -PRON- catch sight of -PRON-   servant run up and down a large field . 
 " now , dear han , " say the master after catch up with -PRON- , " do -PRON-   find the cow that i send -PRON- after ? " 
 " no , master , " -PRON- answer , " i do not find the cow , but then i have not   be look for -PRON- either . " 
 " then what have -PRON- be look for , han ? " 
 " something good . and fortunately i have find -PRON- . " 
 " what be -PRON- ? " 
 " three blackbird , " answer the servant . 
 " and where be -PRON- ? " ask the master . 
 " i see one of -PRON- , i hear the other , and i be chase after the   third , " answer the clever servant . 
 take an example from this . do not trouble yourself about -PRON- master   or -PRON- order . instead , just do what come to -PRON- and make -PRON- happy ,   and then -PRON- will act just as wisely as do clever han . 

 the lazy spinning woman 

 " if that be the problem , " say the man , " then -PRON- will go into the wood ,   and get some wood for a reel . " 
 then the woman be afraid that once -PRON- have the wood , -PRON- would make a   reel out of -PRON- , and -PRON- would have to wind up   -PRON- yarn , and then begin to spin with an empty wheel .   -PRON- think about   this a little while , and then a good idea come to   -PRON- . -PRON- secretly follow the man into the wood . when -PRON- have climb   into a tree to select and cut the wood , -PRON- creep   into the brush below , where -PRON- could not see -PRON- , and cry upward : 
 the man listen , lay down -PRON- ax for a while , and think about what   -PRON- could mean . 
 " well , " -PRON- say at last , " what can -PRON- have be ? -PRON- ear must have   be ring . do not get alarmed for nothing . " so -PRON-   take hold of the ax once more and be about to chop away when again there   come a call from below : 
 -PRON- stop , take fright , and wonder what be happen .   but a little   while later -PRON- take heart again , and for a third   time -PRON- reach for the ax and be about to chop away . 
 but for a third time there come a call from below , say loudly : 
 that be enough for -PRON- . -PRON- no longer have any desire to cut wood , so -PRON-   hastily climb down from the tree , and set   forth toward home . 
 the woman take a shortcut and run as fast as -PRON- could in order to get   home first . when -PRON- enter the parlor , -PRON- put   on an innocent look as if nothing have happen , and say , " well , do -PRON-   bring a good piece of wood for a reel ? " 
 " no , " -PRON- say , " i see very well that wind onto a reel be not   possible , " and -PRON- tell -PRON- what have happen to -PRON- in   the wood . from then on -PRON- say nothing more about -PRON- . 
 nevertheless , a short time later the man begin to complain again about   the disorder in the house . " wife , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- be   a real shame that the spun yarn be just lie there on the bobbin . " 
 " do -PRON- know what ? " -PRON- say . " because -PRON- still do not have a reel , -PRON-   go up into the loft . i will stand down below and   throw the bobbin up to -PRON- , then -PRON- will throw -PRON- down to -PRON- , and thus -PRON-   can make a skein after all . " 
 " yes , that will work , " say the man . 
 so -PRON- do -PRON- , and when -PRON- be finish , -PRON- say , " the yarn be   skein . now -PRON- must be boil . " 
 the woman be again concerned , and say , " yes , -PRON- will boil -PRON- early   tomorrow morning , " but -PRON- be secretly   plan another trick . 
 early in the morning -PRON- get up , start a fire , and put the kettle on .   however , instead of the yarn , -PRON- put in a clump of   tow and let -PRON- boil away . then -PRON- go to the man who be still lie in   bed , and say to -PRON- , " i must go out for a while .   get up now and look after the yarn in the kettle on the fire . do -PRON- right   now , because if the cock crow and -PRON- be not   look after the yarn , -PRON- will turn into tow . " 
 the man agree , and do not delay . -PRON- get up at once , as fast as -PRON-   could , and go into the kitchen .   but when -PRON-   reach the kettle and look in , -PRON- see with horror nothing but a clump   of tow . 

 sweet porridge 

 the girl take the pot home to -PRON- mother , and now -PRON- be free from -PRON- poverty and hunger , and eat sweet porridge as often as -PRON- choose . one time when the girl have go out , -PRON- mother say , " little pot , cook . " and -PRON- do cook , and -PRON- eat until -PRON- be full , and then -PRON- want the pot to stop cook , but do not know the word .   so -PRON- go on cooking and the porridge rise over the edge , and still -PRON- cook on until the kitchen and whole house be full , and then the next house , and then the whole street , just as if -PRON- want to satisfy the hunger of the whole world .   -PRON- be terrible , and no one know how to stop -PRON- .   at last when only one single house remain , the child come home and just say , " little pot , stop , " and -PRON- stop cook , and anyone who wish to return to the town have to eat -PRON- way back . 

 fair katrinelje and pif paf poltrie 

 " many thank , pif paf poltrie . " 
 " may i marry -PRON- daughter ? " 
 " oh , yes , if -PRON- mother milk - cow , -PRON- brother high - pride , -PRON- sister cheese - love , and fair katrinelje be willing , the wedding can take place . " 
 " where be -PRON- mother milk - cow , then ? " 
 " -PRON- be in the stall milk the cow . " 
 " good day , mother milk - cow . " 
 " many thank , pif paf poltrie . " 
 " may i marry -PRON- daughter ? " 
 " oh , yes , if father elderberry - tea , brother high - pride , sister cheese - love , and fair katrinelje be willing , the wedding can take place . " 
 " where be -PRON- brother high - pride , then ? " 
 " -PRON- be in the shed chop wood . " 
 " good - day , brother high - pride . " 
 " many thank , pif paf poltrie . " 
 " may i marry -PRON- sister ? " 
 " oh , yes , if father elderberry - tea , mother milk - cow , sister cheese - love , and fair katrinelje be willing , the wedding can take place . " 
 " where be -PRON- sister cheese - love , then ? " 
 " -PRON- be in the garden cut cabbage . " 
 " good - day , sister cheese - love . " 
 " many thank , pif paf poltrie . " 
 " may i marry -PRON- sister ? " 
 " oh , yes , if father elderberry - tea , mother milk - cow , brother high - pride , and fair katrinelje be willing , the wedding can take place . " 
 " where be fair katrinelje , then . " 
 " -PRON- be in the parlor count out -PRON- penny . " 
 " good day , fair katrinelje . " 
 " many thank , pif paf poltrie . " 
 " will -PRON- be -PRON- sweetheart ? " 
 " oh , yes , if father elderberry - tea , mother milk - cow , brother high - pride , and sister cheese - love be willing , the wedding can take place . " 
 " fair katrinelje , what do -PRON- have for a dowry ? " 
 " fourteen penny in hand , three and a half groschen owe to -PRON- , a half pound of dry pear , a handful of pretzel , and a handful of root , and so -PRON- be . be that not a fine dowry ? 
 " pif paf poltrie , what be -PRON- trade ? be -PRON- a tailor ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " a cobbler ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " a plowman ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " a joiner ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " a smith ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " a miller ? " 
 " much good than that . " 
 " perhaps a broom - maker ? " 
 " yes , that be what i be . be that not a fine trade ? " 

 the fox and the horse 

 the horse be sad , and go to the forest to seek a little protection there from the weather .   there the fox meet -PRON- and say , " why do -PRON- hang -PRON- head so , and go about all alone ? " 
 " alas , " reply the horse , " greed and loyalty do not dwell together in one house .   -PRON- master have forget what service i have perform for -PRON- for so many year , and because i can no longer plow well , -PRON- will give -PRON- no more food , and have drive -PRON- out . " 
 " without give -PRON- a chance ? " ask the fox . 
 " the chance be a bad one .   -PRON- say , if i be still strong enough to bring -PRON- a lion , -PRON- would keep -PRON- , but -PRON- well know that i can not do that . " 
 the fox say , " i will help -PRON- . just lie down , stretch out as if -PRON- be dead , and do not stir . " 
 the horse do what the fox ask , and then the fox go to the lion , who have -PRON- den not far off , and say , " a dead horse be lie out there . just come with -PRON- , and -PRON- can have a rich meal . " 
 the lion go with -PRON- , and when -PRON- be both stand by the horse the fox say , " after all , -PRON- be not very comfortable for -PRON- here -- i tell -PRON- what -- i will fasten -PRON- to -PRON- by the tail , and then -PRON- can drag -PRON- into -PRON- cave and eat -PRON- in peace . " 
 this advice please the lion . -PRON- position -PRON- , and in order that the fox may tie the horse fast to -PRON- , -PRON- keep completely quiet . but the fox tie the lion 's leg together with the horse 's tail , and twist and fasten everything so well and so strongly that no amount of strength could pull -PRON- loose .   when -PRON- have finish -PRON- work , -PRON- tap the horse on the shoulder and say , " pull , white horse , pull ! " 
 then up spring the horse at once , and pull the lion away with -PRON- . the lion begin to roar so that all the bird in the forest fly up in terror , but the horse let -PRON- roar , and draw -PRON- and drag -PRON- across the field to -PRON- master 's door .   when the master see the lion , -PRON- be of a good mind , and say to the horse , " -PRON- shall stay with -PRON- and fare well . " and -PRON- give -PRON- plenty to eat until -PRON- die . 

 the shoe that be dance to piece 

 now -PRON- happen that a poor soldier , who be wound and could no longer   serve in the army , be make -PRON- way to the city where the king live . an   old woman meet -PRON- and ask -PRON- where -PRON- be go . " i 'm not exactly sure   -PRON- , " -PRON- say , then jokingly add , " but i would like to discover where   the princess be dance -PRON- shoe to piece , and then become   king . " 
 " that be not so difficult , " say the old woman . " do not drink the wine   that -PRON- will bring -PRON- in the evening . " then -PRON- give -PRON- a cloak and   say , " when -PRON- put this on -PRON- will become invisible , and -PRON- can follow   the twelve . " 
 have receive this good advice , the soldier become serious , take heart ,   go to the king , and announce -PRON- as a suitor . -PRON- , like the other ,   be well receive , and be give royal clothe to wear . that evening at   bedtime -PRON- be escort to the anteroom . just as -PRON- be go to bed , the   old princess bring -PRON- a goblet of wine . however , -PRON- have tie a   sponge beneath -PRON- chin and let the wine run into -PRON- , drink not a   single drop -PRON- . -PRON- lie down , and after a little while begin to snore   as if -PRON- be in the deep sleep . the twelve princess hear -PRON- and   laugh . the old one say , " -PRON- could have spar -PRON- life as well ! " 
 then -PRON- get up , open -PRON- wardrobe , chest , and closet , take out   -PRON- good clothe , and make -PRON- beautiful in front of -PRON-   mirror , all the time jump about in anticipation of the dance . only the   young one say , " i 'm not sure . -PRON- be all very happy , but -PRON- be afraid   that something bad be go to happen ! " 
 " -PRON- snow goose , " say the old one . " -PRON- be always afraid ! have -PRON-   forget how many prince have be here for nothing ? i would not even   have have to give this soldier a sleep potion . -PRON- would never have wake   up . " 
 when -PRON- be ready , -PRON- first approach the soldier , but -PRON- do not   move at all , and as soon as -PRON- think -PRON- be safe , the old one go   to -PRON- bed and knock on -PRON- . -PRON- immediately sink beneath the floor , and   -PRON- all climb down through the opening , one after the other , the old   one lead the way . the soldier see everything , and without hesitate -PRON-   put on the cloak and follow after the young one . halfway down the   stair -PRON- step on -PRON- dress . frighten , -PRON- call out , " who be there ?   who be hold -PRON- dress ? " 
 " do n't be so stupid , " say the old one . " -PRON- just catch -PRON- on a   hook . " 
 -PRON- continue until -PRON- come to a magnificent walkway between row of   tree . -PRON- leaf be all make of silver , and -PRON- shine and glisten .   the soldier think to -PRON- , " -PRON- would better take some proof , " and -PRON-   break off a twig . 
 a loud cracking sound come from the tree . the young one call out   again , " -PRON- be not right . do not -PRON- hear that sound ? " 
 the old one say , " that be just a joyful salute that -PRON- be fire   because soon -PRON- will have disenchant -PRON- prince . " 
 then -PRON- come to a walkway where the tree be all make of gold , and   finally to a third one , where -PRON- be make of clear diamond . -PRON- break a   twig from each of these . the cracking sound frighten the young one   each time , but the old one insist that -PRON- be only the sound of   joyful salute . -PRON- continue on until -PRON- come to a large body of   water . twelve boat be there , and in each boat there sit a handsome   prince wait for -PRON- . each prince take a princess into -PRON- boat . 
 the soldier sit next to the young princess , and -PRON- prince say , " i   do not know why the boat be so much heavy today . i have to row with all   -PRON- strength in order to make -PRON- go . " 
 " -PRON- must be the warm weather , " say the young princess . " -PRON- be too hot   for -PRON- as well . " 
 on the other side of the water there be a beautiful , brightly illuminate   castle . joyful music , kettle drum , and trumpet sound forth . -PRON- row   over and go inside . each prince dance with -PRON- princess . the invisible   soldier dance along as well , and whenever a princess hold up a goblet of   wine , -PRON- drink -PRON- empty as -PRON- lift -PRON- to -PRON- mouth . this always   frighten the young one , but the old one silence -PRON- every time .   -PRON- dance there until three o'clock the next morning when -PRON- shoe   be dance to piece and -PRON- have to stop . the prince row -PRON- back   across the water . this time the soldier take a seat next to the old   princess in the lead boat . -PRON- take leave from -PRON- prince on the bank   and promise to come back the next night . 
 when -PRON- be on the step the soldier run ahead and get into bed . when   the twelve tired princess come in slowly , -PRON- be again snore so loudly   that -PRON- all could hear -PRON- . " -PRON- be safe from -PRON- , " -PRON- say . then -PRON-   take off -PRON- beautiful clothe and put -PRON- away , place -PRON- wear out   shoe under -PRON- bed , and go to bed . 
 the next morning the soldier say nothing , for -PRON- want to see the   amazing thing once again . -PRON- go along the second and third night , and   everything happen as before . each time -PRON- dance until -PRON- shoe   be in piece . the third time -PRON- also take along a goblet as a piece of   evidence . 
 the hour come when -PRON- be to give -PRON- answer , and -PRON- bring the three   twig and the goblet before the king . the twelve princess stand behind   the door and listen to what -PRON- have to say . the king ask , " where do -PRON-   daughter dance -PRON- shoe to piece ? " 
 -PRON- answer , " in an underground castle with twelve prince . " then -PRON- tell   the whole story and bring forth the piece of evidence . the king   summon -PRON- daughter and ask -PRON- if the soldier have tell the truth .   see that -PRON- have be betray , and that -PRON- denial do no good ,   -PRON- have to admit everything . 
 then the king ask -PRON- which one -PRON- want for a wife . -PRON- answer , " i   -PRON- be no longer young , so give -PRON- the old one . " 
 -PRON- wedding be hold the same day , and the kingdom be promise to -PRON-   follow the king 's death . but the prince have as many day add to   -PRON- curse as -PRON- have spend night dance with the twelve princess . 

 go travel 

 once upon a time there be a poor woman who have a son who want very much to travel . -PRON- mother say , " how can -PRON- travel ? -PRON- have no money at all for -PRON- to take with -PRON- . " 
 then the son say , " i will take care of -PRON- . i will always say , ' not much , not much , not much . ' " 
 so -PRON- walk for a long time , always say , " not much , not much , not much . " 
 then -PRON- come to a group of fisherman , and say , " god be with -PRON- . not much , not much , not much . " 
 " what do -PRON- say , fellow ? not much ? " 
 and when -PRON- pull up -PRON- net , -PRON- have not catch many fish . so one of -PRON- fall on the boy with a stick , say , " have -PRON- ever see -PRON- thrash ? " 
 " what should i say , then ? " ask the boy . 
 " -PRON- should say , " catch a lot . catch a lot . " 
 then -PRON- again walk a long time , say , " catch a lot . catch a lot , " until -PRON- come to a gallow , where -PRON- be about to hang a poor sinner . then say -PRON- , " good morning . catch a lot . catch a lot . " 
 " what do -PRON- say , fellow ? catch a lot ? should there be even more wicked people in the world ? be not this enough ? " and -PRON- again get -PRON- on -PRON- back . 
 " what should i say , then ? " -PRON- ask . 
 " -PRON- should say , " may god comfort the poor soul . " 
 again the boy walk on for a long while , say , " may god comfort the poor soul . " then -PRON- come to a ditch where a knacker be skin a horse . the boy say , " good morning . may god comfort the poor soul . " 
 " what do -PRON- say , -PRON- disgust fellow ? " say the knacker , hit -PRON- about the ear with -PRON- skinning hook until -PRON- could not see out of -PRON- eye . 
 " what should i say , then ? " 
 " -PRON- should say , ' lie in the ditch , -PRON- carcass . ' " 
 so -PRON- walk on , say , " lie in the ditch , -PRON- carcass . lie in the ditch , -PRON- carcass . " -PRON- come to a coach fill with people , and say , " lie in the ditch , -PRON- carcass . " 
 then the coach tip over into the ditch , and the driver take -PRON- whip and beat the boy until -PRON- have to crawl back to -PRON- mother , and as long as -PRON- live -PRON- never go travel again . 

 the star taler 

 then a poor man meet -PRON- , who say , " ah , give -PRON- something to eat , i be so hungry . " 
 -PRON- hand -PRON- -PRON- entire piece of bread , say , " may god bless -PRON- for -PRON- , " and go on -PRON- way . 
 then come a child who moan and say , " -PRON- head be so cold . give -PRON- something to cover -PRON- with . " so -PRON- take off -PRON- cap and give -PRON- to the child . and when -PRON- have walk a little farther , -PRON- meet another child who have no jacket and be freeze . so -PRON- give -PRON- jacket to that child , and a little farther on one beg for a dress , and -PRON- give -PRON- dress away as well . at length -PRON- make -PRON- way into a forest and -PRON- be already dark . then there come yet another child , and ask for a shift , and the pious girl thought to -PRON- , " -PRON- be a dark night and no one can see -PRON- . -PRON- can very well give -PRON- shift away , " and -PRON- take -PRON- off , and give -PRON- away as well . 

 iron han 

 " perhaps -PRON- have have an accident , " say the king , and the follow day   -PRON- send out two other huntsman who be to search for -PRON- , but -PRON- do   not return either . then on the third day , -PRON- summon all -PRON- huntsman ,   and say , " search through the whole forest , and do not give up until -PRON-   have find all three . " 
 but none of these come home again either , nor be any of the hound   from the pack that -PRON- have take with -PRON- ever see again . 
 from that time on , no one dare to go into these wood , and -PRON- lie   there in deep quiet and solitude , and all that one see from there be an   occasional eagle or hawk fly overhead . 
 this last for many year , when an unknown huntsman present -PRON-   to the king seek a position , and -PRON- volunteer to go into the   dangerous wood . 
 the king , however , do not want to give -PRON- permission , and say , " -PRON-   be haunt in there . i be afraid that -PRON- will do no good than do the   other , and that -PRON- will never come out again . " 
 the huntsman answer , " sir , i will proceed at -PRON- own risk . i know   nothing of fear . " 
 the huntsman therefore set forth with -PRON- dog into the wood . -PRON- be   not long before the dog pick up a scent and want to follow -PRON- , but the   dog have run only a few step when -PRON- come to a deep pool , and could go no   further . then a naked arm reach out of the water , seize the dog , and   pull -PRON- under . 
 when the huntsman see that , -PRON- go back and get three man . -PRON-   return with bucket and bale out the water . when -PRON- could see to the   bottom , there be a wild man lie there . -PRON- body be brown like rusty   iron , and -PRON- hair hang over -PRON- face down to -PRON- knee . -PRON- bind -PRON-   with cord and lead -PRON- away to the castle . 
 everyone be greatly astonish at the wild man . the king have -PRON- put   into an iron cage in -PRON- courtyard , forbid , on pain of death , that the   cage door be open . the queen -PRON- be to safeguard the key . 
 from this time forth everyone could once again go safely into the   wood . 
 the king have a son of eight year . one day -PRON- be play in the   courtyard , and during -PRON- game -PRON- golden ball fall into the cage . 
 the boy run to the cage and say , " give -PRON- -PRON- ball . " 
 " not until -PRON- have open the door for -PRON- , " answer the man . 
 " no , " say the boy , " i will not do that . the king have forbid -PRON- , "   and -PRON- run away . 
 the next day -PRON- come again and demand -PRON- ball . 
 the wild man say , " open -PRON- door , " but the boy would not do so . 
 on the third day the king have ride out hunting , and the boy go once   more and say , " even if i want to , i could not open the door . i do not   have the key . " 
 then the wild man say , " -PRON- be under -PRON- mother 's pillow . -PRON- can get   -PRON- there . " 
 the boy , who want to have -PRON- ball back , throw all caution to the   wind , and get the key . the door open with difficulty , and the boy   pinch -PRON- finger . when -PRON- be open , the wild man step out , give -PRON-   the golden ball , and hurry away . 
 the boy become afraid . -PRON- cry out and call after -PRON- , " oh , wild   man , do not go away , or i shall get a beating . " 
 the wild man turn around , pick -PRON- up , set -PRON- on -PRON- shoulder ,   and run into the wood . 
 when the king come home -PRON- notice the empty cage and ask the queen   how -PRON- have happen . -PRON- know nothing about -PRON- , and look for the key ,   but -PRON- be go . -PRON- call the boy , but no one answer . 
 the king send out people to look for -PRON- in the field , but -PRON- do not   find -PRON- . then -PRON- could easily guess what have happen , and great sorrow   rule at the royal court . 
 after the wild man have once more reach the dark wood , -PRON- set the boy   down from -PRON- shoulder , and say to -PRON- , " -PRON- will never again see -PRON-   father and mother , but i will keep -PRON- with -PRON- , for -PRON- have set -PRON- free ,   and i have compassion for -PRON- . if -PRON- do what i tell -PRON- , -PRON- will go well   with -PRON- . i have enough   treasure and gold , more than anyone in the   world . " 
 -PRON- make a bed of moss for the boy , upon which -PRON- fall asleep . the next   morning the man take -PRON- to a spring and say , " look , this golden spring   be as bright and clear as crystal . -PRON- shall sit beside -PRON- , and take care   that nothing fall into -PRON- , otherwise -PRON- will be pollute . i shall come   every evening to see if -PRON- have obey -PRON- order . " 
 the boy sit down at the edge of the spring , and see how sometimes a   golden fish and sometimes a golden snake appear from within , and take   care that nothing fall into -PRON- . as -PRON- be thus sit there , -PRON- finger   hurt -PRON- so fiercely that -PRON- involuntarily put -PRON- into the water . -PRON-   quickly pull -PRON- out again , but see that -PRON- be completely cover with   gold . however hard -PRON- try to wipe the gold off again , -PRON-   be to no   avail . 
 that evening iron han come back , look at the boy , and say , " what   have happen to the spring ? " 
 " nothing , nothing , " -PRON- answer , hold -PRON- finger behind -PRON- back , so   the man would not be able to see -PRON- . 
 but the man say , " -PRON- have dip -PRON- finger into the water . this   time i will let -PRON- go , but be careful that -PRON- do not again let anything   else fall in . " 
 very early the next morning the boy be already sit by the spring   and keep watch . -PRON- finger hurt -PRON- again , and -PRON- rub -PRON- across -PRON-   head . then unfortunately a hair fall down into the spring . -PRON- quickly   pull -PRON- out , but -PRON- be already completely cover with gold . 
 iron han come , and already know what have happen . " -PRON- have let a   hair fall into the spring , " -PRON- say . " i will overlook this once more , but   if -PRON- happen a third time then the spring will be pollute , and -PRON- will   no longer be able to stay with -PRON- . " 
 on the third day the boy sit by the spring and do not move -PRON- finger ,   however much -PRON- hurt -PRON- . but time pass slowly for -PRON- , and -PRON- look at   the reflection of -PRON- face in the water . while do this -PRON- bend down   low and low , want to look straight into -PRON- eye , when -PRON- long   hair fall from -PRON- shoulder down into the water . -PRON- quickly straighten   -PRON- up , but all the hair on -PRON- head be already cover with gold ,   and glisten like the sun . -PRON- can imagine how frightened the poor boy   be . -PRON- take -PRON- handkerchief and tie -PRON- around -PRON- head , so that the man   would not be able to see -PRON- hair . 
 when the man come , -PRON- already know everything , and say , " untie the   handkerchief . " 
 the golden hair stream forth , and no excuse that the boy could offer   be of any use . 
 " -PRON- have fail the test , and -PRON- can stay here no longer . go out into   the world . there -PRON- will learn what poverty be . but because -PRON- be not   bad at heart , and because i mean well by -PRON- , i will grant -PRON- one thing :   if -PRON- be ever in need , go into the wood and cry out , ' iron han , ' and   then i will come and help -PRON- . -PRON- power be great , great than -PRON- think ,   and i have more than enough gold and silver . " 
 then the prince leave the wood , and walk by beat and unbeaten path   on and on until at last -PRON- reach a great city . there -PRON- look for work ,   but -PRON- be not able to find any , because -PRON- have not learn a trade by   which -PRON- could make a living . finally -PRON- go to the castle and ask if   -PRON- would take -PRON- in . 
 the people at court do not at all know how -PRON- would be able to use   -PRON- , but -PRON- take a liking to -PRON- , and tell -PRON- to stay . finally the cook   take -PRON- into service , say that -PRON- could carry wood and water , and rake   up the ash . 
 once when no one else be at hand , the cook order -PRON- to carry the   food to the royal table . because -PRON- do not want -PRON- to see -PRON- golden   hair , -PRON- keep -PRON- cap on . nothing like this have ever before happen to   the king , and -PRON- say , " when -PRON- approach the royal table -PRON- must take   -PRON- hat off . " 
 " oh , sir , " -PRON- answer , " i can not . i have an ugly scab on -PRON- head . " 
 then the king summon the cook and scold -PRON- , ask -PRON- how -PRON-   could take such a boy into -PRON- service . the cook be to send -PRON- away at   once . however , the cook have pity on -PRON- , and let -PRON- trade place with   gardener 's boy . 
 now the boy have to plant and water the garden , hoe and dig , and put up   with the wind and bad weather . 
 once in summer when -PRON- be work alone in the garden , the day be so   hot that -PRON- take -PRON- hat off so that the air would cool -PRON- . as the sun   shone on -PRON- hair -PRON- glisten and sparkle . the ray fall into the   princess 's bedroom , and -PRON- jump up to see what -PRON- be . 
 -PRON- see the boy and call out to -PRON- , " boy , bring -PRON- a bouquet of   flower . " 
 -PRON- quickly put on -PRON- cap , pick some wildflower , and tie -PRON-   together . 
 as -PRON- be climb the step with -PRON- , the gardener meet -PRON- and say ,   " how can -PRON- take the princess a bouquet of such common flower ? quick ! go   and get some other one , and choose only the most beautiful and the rare   one . " 
 " oh , no , " reply the boy , the wild one have a strong scent , and -PRON-   will like -PRON- better . " 
 when -PRON- get into the room , the princess say , " take -PRON- cap off . -PRON- be   not polite to keep -PRON- on in -PRON- presence . " 
 -PRON- again respond , " i can not do that . i have a scabby head . " 
 -PRON- , however , take hold of -PRON- cap and pull -PRON- off . -PRON- golden hair   roll down onto -PRON- shoulder , and -PRON- be a magnificent sight . -PRON- want   to run away , but -PRON- hold -PRON- by -PRON- arm , and give -PRON- a handful of   ducat . -PRON- go away with -PRON- , but -PRON- do not care about the gold . 
 -PRON- take the gold piece to the gardener , say , " i be give these   thing to -PRON- child for -PRON- to play with . " 
 the next day the princess call to -PRON- again , ask -PRON- to bring -PRON-   a bouquet of wildflower . when -PRON- go in with -PRON- , -PRON- immediately grab   at -PRON- cap , and want to take -PRON- away from -PRON- , but -PRON- hold -PRON- firmly   with both hand . -PRON- again give -PRON- a handful of ducat . -PRON- do not want   to keep -PRON- , give -PRON- instead to the gardener for -PRON- child to play   with . on the third day -PRON- be no different . -PRON- be not able to take -PRON-   cap away from -PRON- , and -PRON- do not want -PRON- gold . 
 not long afterwards , the country be overrun by war . the king gather   together -PRON- people , not know whether or not fight back against the   enemy , who be more powerful and have a large army . 
 then the gardener 's boy say , " i be grow up , and i want to go to war   as well . just give -PRON- a horse . " 
 the other laugh and say , " after -PRON- have leave , then look for one by   -PRON- . -PRON- will leave one behind for -PRON- in the stable . " 
 after -PRON- have leave , -PRON- go into the stable , and lead the horse out . -PRON-   have a lame foot , and -PRON- limp higgledy - hop , higgledy - hop . 
 nevertheless -PRON- mount -PRON- , and ride away into the dark wood . when -PRON-   come to the edge of   the wood , -PRON- call " iron han " three time so   loudly that -PRON- sound through the tree . 
 the wild man appear immediately , and say , " what do -PRON- need ? " 
 " i ne a strong steed , for i be go to war . " 
 " that -PRON- shall have , and even more than -PRON- be ask for . " 
 then the wild man go back into the wood , and before long a   stable - boy come out of the wood lead a horse . -PRON- be snort with -PRON-   nostril , and could hardly be restrain . behind -PRON- follow a large   army of warrior , outfit with iron armor , and with -PRON- sword   flash in the sun . 
 the youth leave -PRON- three - legged horse with the stable - boy , mount the   other horse , and ride at the head of the army . when -PRON- approach the   battlefield , a large number of the king 's man have already fall , and   before long the other would have to retreat . then the youth gallop up   with -PRON- iron army and attack the enemy like a storm ,   beat down   all who oppose -PRON- . -PRON- try to flee , but the youth be right behind   -PRON- , and do not stop , until not a single man be leave . 
 however , instead of return to the king , -PRON- lead -PRON- army on a   roundabout way back into the wood , and then call for iron han . 
 " what do -PRON- need ? " ask the wild man . 
 " take back -PRON- steed and -PRON- army , and give -PRON- -PRON- three - legged horse   again . " 
 -PRON- all happen just as -PRON- have request , and -PRON- ride home on -PRON-   three - legged horse . 
 when the king return to -PRON- castle , -PRON- daughter go to meet -PRON- ,   and congratulate -PRON- for -PRON- victory . 
 " i be not the one who earn the victory , " -PRON- say , " but a strange   knight who come to -PRON- aid with -PRON- army . " 
 the daughter want to hear who the strange knight be , but the king   do not know , and say , " -PRON- pursue the enemy , and i do not see -PRON-   again . " 
 -PRON- ask the gardener where -PRON- boy be , but -PRON- laugh and say , " -PRON-   have just come home on -PRON- three - legged horse . the other have be make   fun of -PRON- and shout , ' here come -PRON- higgledy - hop back again . ' -PRON-   also ask -PRON- , ' under what hedge have -PRON- be lie asleep all this   time ? ' but -PRON- say , ' i do good than anyone else . without -PRON- -PRON- would   have go badly . ' and then -PRON- laugh at -PRON- all the more . " 
 the king say to -PRON- daughter , " i will proclaim a great festival . -PRON-   shall last for three day , and -PRON- shall throw a golden apple . perhaps the   unknown knight will come . " 
 when the festival be announce , the youth go out into the wood and   call iron han . 
 " what do -PRON- need ? " -PRON- ask . 
 " to catch the princess 's golden apple . " 
 " -PRON- be as good as do , " say iron han . " and further , -PRON- shall have a   suit of red armor and ride on a spirited chestnut horse . " 
 when the day come , the youth gallop up , take -PRON- place among the   knight , and be recognize by no one . the princess come forward and throw   a golden apple to the knight . -PRON- be the only one who catch -PRON- , and as   soon as -PRON- have -PRON- , -PRON- gallop away . 
 on the second day iron han have outfit -PRON- as a white knight , and   have give -PRON- a white horse . again -PRON- be the only one who catch the   apple . without linger an instant , -PRON- gallop away with -PRON- . 
 the king grow angry and say , " that be not allow . -PRON- must appear   before -PRON- and tell -PRON- -PRON- name . " 
 -PRON- give the order that if the knight who catch the apple , be to go   away again , -PRON- should pursue -PRON- , and if -PRON- would not come back   willingly , -PRON- be to strike and stab at -PRON- . 
 on the third day , -PRON- receive from iron han a suit of black armor and   a black horse , and -PRON- catch the apple again . but when -PRON- be gallop   away with -PRON- , the king 's man pursue -PRON- , and one of -PRON- get so close to   -PRON- that -PRON- wound the youth 's leg with the point of -PRON- sword . in spite   of this -PRON- escape from -PRON- , but -PRON- horse jump so violently that -PRON-   helmet fall from -PRON- head , and -PRON- could see that -PRON- have golden hair .   -PRON- ride back and report everything to the king . 
 the next day the princess ask the gardener about -PRON- boy . 
 " -PRON- be at work in the garden . the strange fellow have be at the   festival too . -PRON- come home only yesterday evening . and furthermore , -PRON-   show -PRON- child three golden apple that -PRON- have win . " 
 the king have -PRON- summon , and -PRON- appear , again with -PRON- cap on -PRON-   head . but the princess go up to -PRON- and take -PRON- off . -PRON- golden hair   fall down over -PRON- shoulder , and -PRON- be so handsome that everyone be   amazed . 
 " be -PRON- the knight who come to the festival every day , each time in a   different color , and who catch the three golden apple ? " ask the king . 
 " yes , " -PRON- answer , " and here be the apple , " take -PRON- out of -PRON-   pocket , and return -PRON- to the king . " if -PRON- ne more proof , -PRON- can   see the wound that -PRON- man give -PRON- when -PRON- be chase -PRON- . but i be   also the knight who help -PRON- to -PRON- victory over -PRON- enemy . " 
 " if -PRON- can perform deed like these then -PRON- be not a gardener 's boy .   tell -PRON- , who be -PRON- father ? " 
 " -PRON- father be a powerful king , and i have as much gold as i may   need . " 
 " i can see , " say the king , " that i owe -PRON- thank . can i do anything   for -PRON- ? " 
 " yes , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- can indeed . give -PRON- -PRON- daughter for -PRON-   wife . " 
 the maiden laugh and say , " -PRON- do not care much for ceremony , but i   already have see from -PRON- golden hair that -PRON- be not a gardener 's boy , "   and then -PRON- go and kiss -PRON- . 
 -PRON- father and mother come to the wedding , and be fill with joy ,   for -PRON- have give up all hope of ever see -PRON- dear son again . 
 while -PRON- sit at the wedding feast , the music suddenly stop ,   the door open , and a proud king come in with a great retinue . -PRON- walk   up to the youth , embrace -PRON- , and say , " i be iron han . i have be   transform into a wild man by a magic spell , but -PRON- have break the   spell . all the treasure that i posses shall belong to -PRON- . " 


 knoist and -PRON- three son 



 the clever people 

 " in god 's name , just go in peace , " answer the woman , " i will manage that . " 
 " -PRON- , indeed , " say the man . " -PRON- once fall on -PRON- head when -PRON- be a little child , and that affect -PRON- even now . but let -PRON- tell -PRON- this , if -PRON- do anything foolish , i will make -PRON- back black and blue , and not with paint , i assure -PRON- , but with the stick which i have in -PRON- hand . and the coloring shall last a whole year . -PRON- may rely on that . " have say that , the man go on -PRON- way . 
 the next morning the cattle dealer come , and the woman have no need to say many word to -PRON- . when -PRON- have see the cow and hear the price , -PRON- say , " i be quite willing to give that . honestly speak , -PRON- be worth -PRON- . i will take the animal away with -PRON- at once . " 
 -PRON- unfasten -PRON- chain and drive -PRON- out of the stall , but just as -PRON- be go out of the farmyard gate , the woman clutch -PRON- by the sleeve and say , " -PRON- must give -PRON- the two hundred taler now , or i can not let the cow go . " 
 " right , " answer the man , " but i have forget to buckle on -PRON- money belt . have no fear , however , -PRON- shall have security until i pay . i will take two cow with -PRON- and leave one , so -PRON- will have good collateral . " 
 the woman see the wisdom of this , and let the man go away with the cow , and think to -PRON- , " how pleased han will be when -PRON- find how cleverly i have manage . " 
 the peasant come home on the third day as -PRON- have say -PRON- would , and at once inquire if the cow be sell . " yes , indeed , dear han , " answer the woman , " and as -PRON- say , for two hundred taler . -PRON- be scarcely worth so much , but the man take -PRON- without make any objection . " 
 " where be the money ? " ask the peasant . " oh , i have not get the money , " reply the woman . " -PRON- have happen to forget -PRON- money belt , but -PRON- will soon bring -PRON- , and -PRON- leave good security behind -PRON- . " 
 " what kind of security ? " ask the man . 
 " one of the three cow , which -PRON- shall not have until -PRON- have pay for the other two . i have manage very cunningly , for i have keep the small , which eat the least . " 
 the man be enrage and lift up -PRON- stick , and be just go to give -PRON- the beating -PRON- have promise -PRON- , when suddenly -PRON- lower the stick and say , " -PRON- be the stupid goose that ever waddle on god 's earth , but i be sorry for -PRON- . i will go out into the highway and wait for three day to see if i find anyone who be still stupid than -PRON- . if i succe in do so , -PRON- shall go free , but if i do not find -PRON- , -PRON- shall receive -PRON- well - deserved reward without any discount . " 
 -PRON- go out into the great highway , sit down on a stone , and wait for what would come along . then -PRON- see a farm wagon come towards -PRON- , and a woman be stand upright in the middle of -PRON- , instead of sit on the bundle of straw which be lie beside -PRON- , or walk near the oxen and lead -PRON- . 
 the man think to -PRON- , " that be certainly one of the kind i be in search of , " and jump up and run back and forth in front of the wagon like one who be not in -PRON- right mind . 
 " what do -PRON- want , -PRON- friend ? " say the woman to -PRON- . " i do not know -PRON- , where do -PRON- come from ? " 
 " i have fall down from heaven , " reply the man , " and do not know how to get back again . could not -PRON- drive -PRON- up ? " 
 " no , " say the woman , " i do not know the way . but if -PRON- come from heaven -PRON- can surely tell -PRON- how -PRON- husband be , who have be there these three year . -PRON- must have see -PRON- . " 
 " oh , yes , i have see -PRON- , but not everyone can get on well . -PRON- herd sheep , and these creature give -PRON- a great deal to do . -PRON- run up the mountain and lose -PRON- way in the wilderness , and -PRON- have to run after -PRON- and drive -PRON- together again . -PRON- clothe be all tear to piece too , and will soon fall off -PRON- body . there be no tailor there , for saint peter will not let any of -PRON- in , as -PRON- know by the story . " 
 " who would have think -PRON- ? " cry the woman . " i tell -PRON- what . i will fetch -PRON- sunday coat which be still hang at home in the cupboard . -PRON- can wear that and look respectable . -PRON- will be so kind as to take -PRON- with -PRON- . " 
 " that will not be possible , " answer the peasant . " people be not allow to take clothe into heaven . -PRON- be take away at the gate . " 
 " then listen to -PRON- , " say the woman . " i sell -PRON- good wheat yesterday and get a lot of money for -PRON- . i will send that to -PRON- . if -PRON- hide the purse in -PRON- pocket , no one will know that -PRON- have -PRON- . " 
 " if -PRON- can not manage -PRON- any other way , " say the peasant , " i will do -PRON- that favor . " 
 " just sit still where -PRON- be , " say -PRON- , " and i will drive home and fetch the purse . i shall soon be back again . i do not sit down on the bundle of straw , but stand up in the wagon , because -PRON- make -PRON- light for the cattle . " 
 -PRON- drive -PRON- oxen away , and the peasant think , " that woman have a perfect talent for folly . if -PRON- really bring the money , -PRON- wife may think -PRON- fortunate , for -PRON- will get no beating . " 
 -PRON- be not long before -PRON- come in a great hurry with the money , and with -PRON- own hand put -PRON- in -PRON- pocket . before -PRON- go away , -PRON- thank -PRON- again a thousand time for -PRON- courtesy . 
 when the woman get home again , -PRON- find -PRON- son who have come in from the field . -PRON- tell -PRON- what unexpected thing have befall -PRON- , and then add , " i be truly delighted at have find an opportunity of send something to -PRON- poor husband . who would ever have imagine that -PRON- could be suffer for want of anything up in heaven ? " 
 the son be full of astonishment . " mother , " say -PRON- , -PRON- be not every day that a man come from heaven in this way . i will go out immediately , and see if -PRON- be still to be find , -PRON- must tell -PRON- what -PRON- be like up there , and how the work be do . 
 -PRON- saddle the horse and ride off with all speed . -PRON- find the peasant who be sit under a willow tree , and be about to count the money in the purse . " have -PRON- see the man who have come from heaven ? " cry the youth to -PRON- . 
 " yes , " answer the peasant , " -PRON- have set out on -PRON- way back there , and have go up that hill , from whence -PRON- will be rather nearer . -PRON- could still catch -PRON- up , if -PRON- ride fast . " 
 " alas , " say the youth , " i have be do tiring work all day , and the ride here have completely wear -PRON- out . -PRON- know the man . be so kind as to get on -PRON- horse , and go and persuade -PRON- to come here . " 
 " aha , " think the peasant . " here be another who have no wick in -PRON- lamp . " 
 " why should i not do -PRON- this favor ? " say -PRON- , and mount the horse and ride off at a quick trot . the youth remain sit there until night fall , but the peasant never come back . 
 " the man from heaven must certainly have be in a great hurry , and would not turn back , " think -PRON- , " and the peasant have no doubt give -PRON- the horse to take to -PRON- father . " -PRON- go home and tell -PRON- mother what have happen , and that -PRON- have send -PRON- father the horse so that -PRON- may not have to be always run about . 
 " -PRON- have do well , " answer -PRON- . " -PRON- still have young leg and can go on foot . " 
 when the peasant get home , -PRON- put the horse in the stable beside the cow which have be leave as security , and then go to -PRON- wife and say , " trina , as -PRON- luck would have -PRON- , i have find two who be still more stupid fool than -PRON- . this time -PRON- escape without a beating . i will store -PRON- up for another occasion . " 
 then -PRON- light -PRON- pipe , sit down in -PRON- grandfather 's chair , and say , " -PRON- be a good stroke of business to get a sleek horse and a great purse full of money into the bargain , for two lean cow . if stupidity always bring in as much as that , i would be quite willing to hold -PRON- in honor . " 
 so think the peasant , but -PRON- no doubt prefer the simpleton . 

 the little lamb and the little fish 

 -PRON- so happen that the two of -PRON- be play with other child in   a meadow in front -PRON- house . there be a pond in the meadow that come up   to one side of the house . the child run around -PRON- , catch one another ,   and play a counting out game : 

 while play this game -PRON- stand in a circle , and the one to whom   -PRON- be point when -PRON- say " cut -PRON- up " have to run away , and all   the other would run after -PRON- and catch -PRON- . while -PRON- be thus run   about so joyfully the stepmother be watch -PRON- from the window , and   grow angry . because -PRON- understand the art of witchcraft -PRON- bewitch   -PRON- both , transform the little brother into a fish , and the little   sister into a lamb . 
 the little fish swim back and forth in the pond and be sad , and the   little lamb walk back and forth in the meadow and be sad , and would not   eat . -PRON- would not even touch one blade of grass . thus a long time pass ,   and then some stranger come as guest to the castle . 
 the treacherous stepmother think , " now be -PRON- chance , " and call the   cook and say to -PRON- , " go and fetch the lamb from the meadow and slaughter   -PRON- . -PRON- have nothing else for -PRON- guest . " 
 the cook go and get the little lamb , take -PRON- into the kitchen , and   tie -PRON- foot together . -PRON- bear all this patiently . the cook then take   out -PRON- knife and be whet -PRON- on the doorstep in order to kill the   little lamb when -PRON- see how a little fish be swim back and forth in   the water in front of the gutter and look up at -PRON- . this be the   little brother , for when the little fish see the cook take the little lamb   away , -PRON- follow -PRON- , swimming along the pond as far as the house . 
 then the little lamb cry down to -PRON- : 

 the little fish answer : 

 when the cook hear that the little lamb could speak , say such sad   word to the little fish down below , -PRON- be frighten and think that   this could not be an ordinary little lamb , but must have be bewitch by   the wicked woman in the house . 
 -PRON- say , " do n't worry . i will not kill -PRON- . " 
 then -PRON- take another animal and prepare -PRON- for the guest , after which   -PRON- take the little lamb to a good peasant woman and tell -PRON- everything   that -PRON- have see and hear . 
 now this peasant woman have be the wet nurse for the little sister ,   and -PRON- suspect at once who the little lamb be , and take -PRON- with -PRON-   to a wise woman . the wise woman pronounce a blessing over the little lamb   and the little fish , and -PRON- regain -PRON- human form . after this -PRON-   take -PRON- both to a little hut in a large forest , where -PRON- live by   -PRON- , contented and happy . 

 simeli mountain 

 one day -PRON- be push -PRON- cart through the forest when off to the side   -PRON- see a large bare mountain . -PRON- have never see -PRON- before , so -PRON- stop   and look at -PRON- with amazement . while -PRON- be stand there -PRON- see twelve   tall wild man approach . think that -PRON- be robber , -PRON- push -PRON-   cart into the thicket , climb up a tree , and wait to see what would   happen . 
 the twelve man go to the mountain and cry out , " mount semsi , mount   semsi , open up . " the barren mountain immediately separate down the   middle . the twelve man walk into -PRON- , and as soon as -PRON- be inside -PRON-   shut . 
 a little while later -PRON- open again , and the man come out carry   heavy sack on -PRON- back . as soon as -PRON- be all back in the daylight   -PRON- say , " mount semsi , mount semsi , close . " then the mountain go back   together , and the entrance could no longer be see . then the twelve man   go away . 
 when -PRON- be completely out of sight , the poor man climb down from   the tree . -PRON- be curious to know what secret be hide in the mountain ,   so -PRON- go up to -PRON- and say , " mount semsi , mount semsi , open up , " and   the mountain open up for -PRON- as well . 
 -PRON- go inside , and the entire mountain be a cavern full of silver and   gold , and in the back of the cavern there lie great pile of pearl and   sparkle jewel , pile up like grain . the poor man do not know what -PRON-   should do , whether or not -PRON- could take any of these treasure for   -PRON- . at last -PRON- fill -PRON- pocket with gold , but -PRON- leave the pearl   and precious stone lie where -PRON- be . 
 upon leave -PRON- too say , " mount semsi , mount semsi , close , " and the   mountain close . then -PRON- go home with -PRON- cart . 
 -PRON- no longer have any care , for with -PRON- gold -PRON- could buy bread for   -PRON- wife and child , and wine as well . -PRON- live happily and honestly ,   give to the poor , and do good for everyone . when -PRON- run out of money -PRON-   go to -PRON- brother , borrow a bushel , and get some more money , but do   not touch any of the very valuable thing . when -PRON- want to get some more   money for the third time -PRON- again borrow the bushel from -PRON- brother .   however , the rich man have long be envious of -PRON- brother 's wealth and of   the fine household that -PRON- have furnish for -PRON- . -PRON- could not   understand where the rich come from , and what -PRON- brother want with   the bushel . then -PRON- think of a trap . -PRON- cover the bottom of the bushel   with pitch , and when -PRON- get the bushel back a gold coin be stick to   -PRON- . 
 -PRON- at once go to -PRON- brother and ask -PRON- , " what have -PRON- be   measure in the bushel ? " 
 " wheat and barley , " say the poor brother . 
 then -PRON- show -PRON- the gold coin and threaten that if -PRON- do not tell   the truth -PRON- would bring charge against -PRON- before the court . then the   poor man then tell -PRON- everything that have happen to -PRON- . the rich man   immediately have -PRON- wagon hitch up and drive away , intend to do   good than -PRON- brother have do , and to bring back with -PRON- quite   different treasure . 
 when -PRON- come to the mountain -PRON- cry out , " mount semsi , mount semsi ,   open up . " 
 the mountain open , and -PRON- go inside . there lie the rich all   before -PRON- , and for a long time -PRON- do not know what -PRON- should take hold   of first . finally take as many precious stone as -PRON- could carry . -PRON-   want to carry -PRON- load outside , but as -PRON- heart and soul be entirely   occupy with the treasure , -PRON- have forget the name of the mountain ,   and cry out , " mount simeli , mount simeli , open up . " 
 but that be not the right name , and the mountain do not move ,   remain close instead . -PRON- become frightened , and the longer -PRON- think   about -PRON- the more -PRON- become confused , and all of the treasure be of no   use to -PRON- . 
 in the evening the mountain open up , and the twelve robber come   inside . when -PRON- see -PRON- -PRON- laugh and cry out , " bird , -PRON- have -PRON-   at last . do -PRON- think -PRON- do not notice that -PRON- come here twice ? -PRON-   could not catch -PRON- then , this third time -PRON- shall not get out again . " 
 -PRON- cry out , " i be not the one . -PRON- be -PRON- brother ! " 
 but however much -PRON- beg for -PRON- life , and in spite of everything   that -PRON- say , -PRON- cut off -PRON- head . 

 go travel 

 once upon a time there be a poor woman who have a son who want very much to travel . -PRON- mother say , " how can -PRON- travel ? -PRON- have no money at all for -PRON- to take with -PRON- . " 
 then the son say , " i will take care of -PRON- . i will always say , ' not much , not much , not much . ' " 
 so -PRON- walk for a long time , always say , " not much , not much , not much . " 
 then -PRON- come to a group of fisherman , and say , " god be with -PRON- . not much , not much , not much . " 
 " what do -PRON- say , fellow ? not much ? " 
 and when -PRON- pull up -PRON- net , -PRON- have not catch many fish . so one of -PRON- fall on the boy with a stick , say , " have -PRON- ever see -PRON- thrash ? " 
 " what should i say , then ? " ask the boy . 
 " -PRON- should say , " catch a lot . catch a lot . " 
 then -PRON- again walk a long time , say , " catch a lot . catch a lot , " until -PRON- come to a gallow , where -PRON- be about to hang a poor sinner . then say -PRON- , " good morning . catch a lot . catch a lot . " 
 " what do -PRON- say , fellow ? catch a lot ? should there be even more wicked people in the world ? be not this enough ? " and -PRON- again get -PRON- on -PRON- back . 
 " what should i say , then ? " -PRON- ask . 
 " -PRON- should say , " may god comfort the poor soul . " 
 again the boy walk on for a long while , say , " may god comfort the poor soul . " then -PRON- come to a ditch where a knacker be skin a horse . the boy say , " good morning . may god comfort the poor soul . " 
 " what do -PRON- say , -PRON- disgust fellow ? " say the knacker , hit -PRON- about the ear with -PRON- skinning hook until -PRON- could not see out of -PRON- eye . 
 " what should i say , then ? " 
 " -PRON- should say , ' lie in the ditch , -PRON- carcass . ' " 
 so -PRON- walk on , say , " lie in the ditch , -PRON- carcass . lie in the ditch , -PRON- carcass . " -PRON- come to a coach fill with people , and say , " lie in the ditch , -PRON- carcass . " 
 then the coach tip over into the ditch , and the driver take -PRON- whip and beat the boy until -PRON- have to crawl back to -PRON- mother , and as long as -PRON- live -PRON- never go travel again . 

 the little donkey 

 finally god fulfil -PRON- desire , but when the child come to the world   -PRON- do not look like a human child , but instead -PRON- be a young donkey .   when the mother see -PRON- -PRON- weep and wail . -PRON- would sooner have no child   at all than a donkey , and -PRON- say that -PRON- should throw -PRON- into the   water and let the fish eat -PRON- . 
 but the king say , " no , god have give -PRON- to -PRON- . -PRON- shall be -PRON- son and   heir , and follow -PRON- death -PRON- shall sit on the royal throne and wear the   royal crown . " 
 thus -PRON- raise the little donkey . -PRON- get big , and -PRON- ear grow up   straight and tall . -PRON- be a very cheerful sort , jump about , and play .   -PRON- be especially fond of music , so -PRON- go to a famous minstrel and say ,   " teach -PRON- to play the lute as well as -PRON- do . " 
 " oh , -PRON- little master , " answer the minstrel , " that will be difficult   for -PRON- , because -PRON- do not have quite the right finger ; -PRON- be too   large . and i be afraid that the string would not hold up . " 
 but no excuse would do . the little donkey insist on learn to play   the lute . -PRON- keep at -PRON- and practice hard , and in the end -PRON- learn to   play just as well as -PRON- teacher . 
 one day while take a contemplative walk -PRON- come to a well , look   into -PRON- , and see -PRON- donkey shape in the mirror - like water . this make -PRON-   so sad that -PRON- set forth into the wide world , take only a single loyal   companion with -PRON- . -PRON- go this way and that way , finally come to a   kingdom where an old king rule . -PRON- have only one daughter , but -PRON- be   very beautiful . 
 the little donkey say , " this be where -PRON- will stay . " -PRON- knock at the   gate and call out , " there be a guest out here . open up and let -PRON- in . "   but -PRON- do not open the gate , so -PRON- take -PRON- lute and begin to play -PRON-   most beautifully with -PRON- two front foot . 
 that open the gatekeeper 's eye , and -PRON- run to the king , say , " a   little donkey be sit outside the gate play the lute as good as an   accomplish master . " 
 " then let the musician in , " say the king . 
 when the little donkey enter , -PRON- all begin to laugh at the lute   player . -PRON- send -PRON- below to sit and eat with the servant , but -PRON-   refuse , say , " i be not a common stall donkey , i be a noble one . " 
 " if that be the case , then -PRON- can sit with the soldier , " -PRON-   say . 
 " no , " -PRON- reply , " i want to sit next to the king . " 
 the king laugh and say with good humor , " so be -PRON- . if -PRON- insist ,   then just come here to -PRON- . " then -PRON- ask , " little donkey , how do -PRON- like   -PRON- daughter ? " 
 the donkey turn -PRON- head toward -PRON- , look -PRON- over , nod , and   then say , " beyond all measure . -PRON- be the most beautiful girl i have ever   see . " 
 " then -PRON- should sit next to -PRON- , " say the king . 
 " -PRON- be all right with -PRON- , " say the little donkey , then take a seat at   -PRON- side and eat , behave -PRON- like a real gentleman . 
 after the noble animal have stay at the king 's court for a good while ,   -PRON- think to -PRON- , " what be the use ? i have to go home again . " -PRON-   sadly bow -PRON- head , go to the king , and ask for -PRON- leave . 
 but the king , who like -PRON- a great deal , say , " little donkey , what be   the matter with -PRON- . -PRON- look as sour as a vinegar jug . i will give -PRON-   whatev -PRON- ask for . do -PRON- want gold ? " 
 " no . " 
 " do -PRON- want precious thing and jewelry ? " 
 " no . " 
 " do -PRON- want half of -PRON- kingdom ? " 
 " oh , no . " 
 then the king say , " if i only know what would make -PRON- happy . would   -PRON- like to have -PRON- beautiful daughter as -PRON- wife ? " 
 " oh , yes , " say the little donkey , and be suddenly happy and content ,   for that be exactly what -PRON- have want . 
 so -PRON- have a large and splendid wedding . that evening when the bride   and the bridegroom be lead into -PRON- bedroom , the king want to know if   the little donkey would behave -PRON- like a gentleman , so -PRON- have a   servant hide -PRON- there . when the couple be inside , the bridegroom   bolt the door shut , look around , and think that -PRON- be all   alone , -PRON- pull off -PRON- donkey skin and stand there as a handsome young   man of royalty . 
 -PRON- say , " now -PRON- see who i be , and that i have be worthy of -PRON- . " 
 the bride be delighted , kiss -PRON- , and love -PRON- with all of -PRON-   heart . the next morning -PRON- jump up , put -PRON- animal skin on again , and no   one would have think what -PRON- be like beneath -PRON- . 
 the old king soon come by . " aha , " -PRON- say . " the little donkey be awake   already ! " then -PRON- say to -PRON- daughter , " be -PRON- sad that -PRON- do not have   an ordinary human for a husband ? " 
 " not at all , father dear . i love -PRON- just as much as if -PRON- be the   handsome man , and i want to keep -PRON- as long as i live . " 
 this surprise the king , but then the servant who have hide -PRON- come   and reveal everything to -PRON- . the king say , " that can not be true ! " 
 " then -PRON- keep watch tonight , and -PRON- will see -PRON- with -PRON- own eye .   and do -PRON- know what , -PRON- majesty ? if -PRON- take the skin away from -PRON- and   throw -PRON- into the fire , then -PRON- will have to show -PRON- in -PRON- real   form . " 
 " -PRON- advice be good , " say the king , and that evening while -PRON-   sleep , -PRON- creep into -PRON- room , and when -PRON- come to -PRON- bed , by the   light of the moon -PRON- see a proud young man lie there . the skin be lie   on the floor . -PRON- take -PRON- away , have an enormous fire build outside , and have   the skin throw into -PRON- . -PRON- -PRON- stay there until -PRON- have burn   entirely to ash . -PRON- stay awake and keep watch the entire night ,   because -PRON- want to see what the rob man would do . when the young man   awake at the first light of morning , -PRON- get up and want to put on the   donkey skin , but -PRON- could not find -PRON- . 
 terrify , -PRON- speak with sadness and fear , " i will have to run   away . " 
 -PRON- leave the room , and the king , who be stand there , say , " -PRON- son ,   where be -PRON- go in such a hurry ? just what do -PRON- have in mind ? stay   here . -PRON- be such a handsome man . do not leave -PRON- . i will give -PRON- half -PRON-   kingdom for now , and after -PRON- death -PRON- shall receive the other half . " 
 " i wish a good conclusion for this good beginning , " say the young man .   " i shall stay here with -PRON- . " 
 then the old man give -PRON- half -PRON- kingdom . -PRON- die a year later , and   then -PRON- have the whole kingdom , and after the death of -PRON- father , another   one as well . and -PRON- have a glorious life . 

 the ungrateful son 



 lazy heinz 

 " -PRON- be in truth a heavy burden , " -PRON- say , " and a tiresome job , to drive   such a goat out to the field year in and year out until late in the fall .   if i could only lie down and sleep at -PRON- ! but no , i must keep -PRON- eye open   so -PRON- will not damage the young tree , or force -PRON- way through the hedge   into a garden , or even run away altogether . how can i get some rest and   enjoy life ? " 
 -PRON- sit down , collect -PRON- thought , and consider how -PRON- could lift   this burden from -PRON- shoulder . for a long time -PRON- thought lead to   nothing , but suddenly -PRON- be as if scale be remove from -PRON- eye . 
 " i know what i will do , " -PRON- shout . " i will marry fat trina . -PRON- too   have a goat , and -PRON- can drive -PRON- out with -PRON- , and then i shall no   long have to torment -PRON- . " 
 so heinz get up , set -PRON- weary limb into motion , and walk across the   street , for -PRON- be no further than that , to where fat trina 's parent   live , and ask for the hand in marriage of -PRON- industrious and   virtuous daughter . 
 -PRON- parent do not think about -PRON- for long . " bird of a feather , flock   together , " -PRON- think , and give -PRON- consent . 
 so fat trina become heinz 's wife , and drive out both of the goat .   heinz now enjoy life , have no work to rest from , but -PRON- own laziness . 
 -PRON- go out with -PRON- only now and then , say , " i 'm do this so that   afterwards i will enjoy rest more . otherwise i shall lose all feeling   for -PRON- . " 
 however , fat trina be no less lazy . 
 " dear heinz , " -PRON- say one day , " why should -PRON- make -PRON- life so   miserable , ruin the good day of -PRON- youth , when there be no need for   -PRON- ? the two goat disturb -PRON- good sleep every morning with -PRON-   bleating . would not -PRON- be good for -PRON- to give -PRON- to -PRON- neighbor , who   will give -PRON- a beehive for -PRON- ? -PRON- will put the beehive in a sunny place   behind the house , and then not give -PRON- any more thought . bee do not have   to be take care of , nor drive into the field . -PRON- fly out and find   -PRON- way home again by -PRON- , and -PRON- collect honey without any   effort at all on -PRON- part . " 
 " -PRON- have speak like a sensible woman , " reply heinz . " -PRON- will carry   out -PRON- proposal without delay . and furthermore , honey taste better and   be more nourishing than goat 's milk , and -PRON- keep longer too . " 
 the neighbor willingly give -PRON- a beehive for the two goat . the bee   fly tirelessly in and out from early morning until late evening , fill   the hive with the good honey . thus that fall - time , heinz be able to take   out a whole jugful . 
 -PRON- place the jug on a shelf on -PRON- bedroom wall . fear that -PRON-   may be steal , or that the mouse may get into -PRON- , trina bring in a   stout hazel stick and put -PRON- beside -PRON- bed , so that -PRON- would be able to   reach -PRON- without have to get up , and then from -PRON- place in bed drive   away the uninvited guest . 
 lazy heinz do not like to get out of bed before noon . " -PRON- who rise   early , " -PRON- would say , " waste -PRON- wealth . " 
 one morning when -PRON- be still lie in the feather in broad daylight ,   rest from -PRON- long sleep , -PRON- say to -PRON- wife , " woman be fond of   sweet , and -PRON- have be snack on the honey . -PRON- would be good for -PRON-   to exchange -PRON- for a goose with a young gosling , before -PRON- eat -PRON- all   up . " 
 " but not before -PRON- have a child to take care of -PRON- . " reply trina .   be i to torment -PRON- with the young goose , waste all -PRON- energy on -PRON-   for no reason ? " 
 " do -PRON- think , " say heinz , " that the boy will tend goose ? nowadays   child no longer obey . -PRON- do just as -PRON- please , because -PRON- think   that -PRON- be smart than -PRON- parent , just like that servant who be   suppose to look for the cow and chase after three blackbird . " 
 " oh , " reply trina , " -PRON- will get -PRON- if -PRON- do not do what i say . i   will take a stick and tan -PRON- hide with more blow than can be count . " 
 " see here , heinz , " -PRON- shout in -PRON- fervor , seize the stick that   -PRON- intend to use to drive away the mouse . " see here ! this be how i will   beat -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- strike forth , unfortunately hit the jug of honey above the bed .   the jug strike against the wall and fall down in piece . the fine honey   flow out onto the floor . 
 " there lie the goose with the young gosling , " say heinz . " and -PRON- do   not need to be tend . but -PRON- be lucky that the jug do not fall on -PRON-   head . -PRON- have every reason to be satisfied with -PRON- fate . " 
 then notice that there be still some honey in one of the piece of   the jug , -PRON- reach out for -PRON- , say quite happily , " wife , let -PRON- enjoy   the leftover , and then -PRON- will rest a little from the fright -PRON- have have .   what do -PRON- matter if -PRON- get up a little later than usual ? the day will   be long enough . " 
 " yes , " answer trina , " there be always time enough . -PRON- know , the   snail be once invite to a wedding and start on -PRON- way , but arrive at   the child 's baptism . in front of the house -PRON- fall over the fence , and   say , ' haste make waste . ' " 

 the little old man make young by fire 

 peter have compassion and say , " lord and master , if -PRON- please -PRON- , cure -PRON- ailment , that -PRON- may earn -PRON- own bread . " 
 the lord say gently , " smith , lend -PRON- -PRON- forge and put some coal on for -PRON- , and then i will make this sick old man young again . " 
 the smith be quite willing . saint peter pump the bellow , and when the coal fire sparkle up large and high , -PRON- lord take the little old man , push -PRON- into the forge in the middle of the red fire , so that -PRON- glow like a rosebush , and praise god with a loud voice . 
 after that the lord go to the quenching - tub , put the glow little man into -PRON- so that the water close over -PRON- , and after -PRON- have carefully cool -PRON- , -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- blessing , when , behold , the little man spring nimbly out , look fresh , upright , healthy , and as if -PRON- be twenty year old . 
 the smith , who have watch everything closely and attentively , invite -PRON- all to supper . now -PRON- have an old half - blind , hunchbacked mother - in - law . -PRON- go to the youth and ask earnestly if the fire have burn -PRON- much . 
 -PRON- answer that -PRON- have never feel good , and that -PRON- have sit in the glowing coal as if -PRON- have be in cool dew . 
 the youth 's word echo in the the old woman 's ear all night long , and early the next morning , after the lord have go on -PRON- way again and have heartily thank the smith , the latter thought -PRON- may make -PRON- old mother - in - law young again in the same way , for -PRON- have watch everything very carefully , and -PRON- use the skill of -PRON- trade . therefore -PRON- call to -PRON- , ask -PRON- if -PRON- , too , would like to go prance about like an eighteen - year - old girl . 
 because the youth have come out of -PRON- so well , -PRON- say , " with all -PRON- heart . " 
 so the smith make a large fire , and push the old woman into -PRON- . -PRON- twist about this way and that , utter horrible cry of murder . 
 " sit still . why be -PRON- scream and jump about so ? i still have to blow the fire hot , " -PRON- cry , then pump the bellow again , until all -PRON- rag be all afire . 
 the old woman cry without cease , and the smith think to -PRON- , " -PRON- be not go exactly right . " then -PRON- take -PRON- out and throw -PRON- into the quenching - tub . -PRON- scream so loudly that the smith 's wife upstairs and -PRON- daughter - in - law hear -PRON- , and -PRON- both run downstairs , and see the old woman lie in a heap in the tub , howl and scream , with -PRON- face wrinkled and shrivel and all out of shape . 

 the nail 

 at noon make a rest stop in a town . when -PRON- be about to continue on -PRON- way , a servant bring -PRON- -PRON- horse and say , " sir , a nail be miss from the shoe on -PRON- left hind hoof . " 
 " let -PRON- be , " answer the merchant . " the shoe will certainly stay on for the six hour that i still have to ride . i be in a hurry . " 
 that afternoon , when -PRON- dismount once again and have -PRON- horse feed , a servant come into the inn and say , " sir , a shoe be miss from -PRON- horse 's leave hind hoof . shall i take -PRON- to the blacksmith ? " 
 " let -PRON- be , " answer the man . " the horse can manage for the few hour that i still have to ride . i be in a hurry . " 
 -PRON- ride on , but before long the horse begin to limp . -PRON- do not limp long before -PRON- begin to stumble , and -PRON- do not stumble long before -PRON- fall down and break a leg . the merchant have to leave the horse where -PRON- be , and unbuckle the duffel bag , load -PRON- onto -PRON- shoulder , and walk home on foot , not arrive there until very late that night . 
 " all this bad luck , " -PRON- say to -PRON- , " be cause by that curse nail . " 
 haste make waste . 

 the rooster beam 

 the magic vanish immediately , and the people see what -PRON- be , and drive the sorcerer away in shame and disgrace . 
 -PRON- , however , full of inward anger , say , " i will avenge -PRON- . " 
 some time later the girl 's wedding day arrive . -PRON- be all deck out , and go in a great procession across a field to the place where the church be . suddenly -PRON- come to a swollen brook , and there be neither a bridge nor a walkway to cross -PRON- . so the bride nimbly lift up -PRON- clothe , and be about to wade through -PRON- . -PRON- have just step into the water when a man near -PRON- , and -PRON- be the magician , call out mockingly " aha ! what kind of eye do -PRON- have that think -PRON- see water ? " 

 the old beggar woman 

 the beggar woman come up to the door , and there by the fire stand a friendly rogue of a boy warm -PRON- . the boy speak kindly to the poor old woman as -PRON- be stand there by the door shivering , " come , old mother , and warm -PRON- . " 

 the three lazy one 

 when the time come for -PRON- to die -PRON- call -PRON- to -PRON- bed and say ,   " dear child , i have think of something that i will   reveal to -PRON- .   the one of -PRON- be the lazy shall become king after -PRON- . " 
 the old one say , " father , then the kingdom belong to -PRON- , for i be   so lazy that whenever i lie down to sleep , and a drop fall into -PRON- eye ,   i will not even close -PRON- so that i can fall asleep . " 
 the second one say , " father , the kingdom belong to -PRON- , for i be so   lazy that when i be sit by the fire warm -PRON- , i would rather let   -PRON- heel burn up than to pull -PRON- leg back . " 
 the third one say , " father , the kingdom be mine , for i be so lazy that   if i be go to be hang and already have the rope around -PRON- neck , and   someone put into -PRON- hand a sharp knife with which to cut the rope , i would   let -PRON- be hang rather than to lift -PRON- hand up to the rope . " 
 when the father hear this -PRON- say , " -PRON- have take -PRON- the farth and   shall be king . " 

 the star taler 

 then a poor man meet -PRON- , who say , " ah , give -PRON- something to eat , i be so hungry . " 
 -PRON- hand -PRON- -PRON- entire piece of bread , say , " may god bless -PRON- for -PRON- , " and go on -PRON- way . 
 then come a child who moan and say , " -PRON- head be so cold . give -PRON- something to cover -PRON- with . " so -PRON- take off -PRON- cap and give -PRON- to the child . and when -PRON- have walk a little farther , -PRON- meet another child who have no jacket and be freeze . so -PRON- give -PRON- jacket to that child , and a little farther on one beg for a dress , and -PRON- give -PRON- dress away as well . at length -PRON- make -PRON- way into a forest and -PRON- be already dark . then there come yet another child , and ask for a shift , and the pious girl thought to -PRON- , " -PRON- be a dark night and no one can see -PRON- . -PRON- can very well give -PRON- shift away , " and -PRON- take -PRON- off , and give -PRON- away as well . 

 the steal farthing 

 on the second and on the third day -PRON- come back in exactly the same   manner . then the stranger finally ask the father , whose   beautiful child   -PRON- be that go into the next room every day at noon . 
 " i do not see -PRON- , " -PRON- say , add that -PRON- do -PRON- know whose child -PRON-   may be . 
 the next day when -PRON- again come , the stranger point -PRON- out to the   father , but the latter do not see -PRON- , nor do the mother and the child   see anything . then the stranger get up , go to the door of the room ,   open -PRON- a little , and look in . there -PRON- see the child sit on the   floor , and busily dig and root about in the crack in the floor .   when -PRON- see the stranger , -PRON- disappear . 
 -PRON- now tell what -PRON- have see and describe the child exactly . then the   mother recognize -PRON- , and say , " oh , -PRON- be -PRON- dear child who die four   week ago . " 
 -PRON- rip up the floor and find two farthing which the child have   once receive from -PRON- mother to give to a poor man . -PRON- , however , have   thought , " with that money -PRON- can buy -PRON- a piece of zwieback , " and   have keep the farthing , hide -PRON- in the crack in the floor . 
 therefore -PRON- have have no rest in -PRON- grave , and have come every day at   noon to look for these farthing . then the parent give the money to a   poor man , and after that the child be never see again . 

 choose a bride 

 the youth do so . the first one eat the cheese with the rind on . the second one hastily cut the rind off the cheese , but -PRON- cut -PRON- so quickly that -PRON- leave much good cheese with -PRON- , and throw that away also . the third peel the rind off carefully , and cut neither too much nor too little .   the shepherd tell all this to -PRON- mother , who say , " take the third for -PRON- wife . " 

 the hurd 

 a young man have court the lazy girl , and the wedding be about to take place . on the eve of the wedding , the industrious girl be dance merrily about in -PRON- beautiful dress , and the bride say , 

 a riddle tale 

 and that be what happen . 
 now the question be , how do -PRON- husband recognize -PRON- , for the flower   be exactly alike , and without any difference ? 
 answer : while -PRON- be in -PRON- house during the night and not in the   field , the dew do not fall on -PRON- as -PRON- do on the other two , and by this   -PRON- husband recognize -PRON- . 

 the blue light 

 once upon a time there be a soldier who have serve the king loyally   for many long year . when the war be   over and the soldier could no longer serve because of the many wound -PRON-   have receive , the king say to -PRON- , " -PRON-   can go home now . i no longer ne -PRON- . there will be no more money for   -PRON- , because wage be only for those   who earn -PRON- . " 
 because the soldier do not know how -PRON- could earn a living , -PRON- sadly   walk the whole day long , until -PRON-   come to a forest in the evening . as darkness fall -PRON- see a light . -PRON-   approach -PRON- and come to a little house , where   a witch live . " give -PRON- a night 's shelter and a little to eat and drink , "   -PRON- say to -PRON- , " otherwise i will perish . " 
 " oho ! " -PRON- answer . " who give anything to a runaway soldier ? but i   will have pity and take -PRON- in after all , if   -PRON- will do what i ask of -PRON- . " 
 " what do -PRON- want ? " ask the soldier . 
 " for -PRON- to dig up -PRON- garden tomorrow . " 
 the soldier agree , and the next day -PRON- work with all -PRON- might , but   could not finish before evening . " i see , "   say the witch , " that -PRON- can do no more work today . i will take -PRON- in   for one more night if tomorrow -PRON- will cut   up and split a stack of wood for -PRON- . " 
 the soldier take the entire day to do this , and that evening the witch   propose that -PRON- remain a third night .   " tomorrow i have only a small task for -PRON- . behind -PRON- house there be a dry   well into which -PRON- light have fall . -PRON-   burn blue and never go out . i want -PRON- to get -PRON- for -PRON- . " 
 the next day the old woman lead -PRON- to the well and lower -PRON- down -PRON-   in a basket . -PRON- find the blue light   and give a sign that -PRON- should pull -PRON- up again . and -PRON- do pull -PRON-   up , but when -PRON- be close to the edge , -PRON-   want to take the blue light from -PRON- . " no , " -PRON- say , sense -PRON- evil   thought , " i shall not give -PRON- the light until   i be stand on the ground with both foot . " 
 then the witch become furious , let -PRON- fall back into the well , and   walk away . the poor soldier fall to the   damp floor without be injure . the blue light continue to burn , but   how could that help -PRON- ? -PRON- see that   would not be able to escape death . -PRON- sadly sit there for a while . then -PRON-   happen to reach into -PRON- pocket and   find -PRON- tobacco pipe , which be still half full . " this will be -PRON- last   pleasure , " -PRON- think , pull -PRON- out , light -PRON-   with the blue light , and begin to smoke . 
 after the fume have waft about the cavern , suddenly there stand   before -PRON- a little black dwarf , who say ,   " master , what do -PRON- command ? " 
 " why should i command -PRON- ? " reply the bewildered soldier . 
 " i must do everything that -PRON- demand , " say the dwarf . " 
 " good , " say the soldier , " then first help -PRON- out of this well . " 
 the dwarf take -PRON- by the hand and lead -PRON- through an underground   passage , and -PRON- do not forget to take   the blue light with -PRON- . along the way -PRON- show -PRON- the treasure that   the witch have collect and hide   there , and the soldier take as much gold as -PRON- could carry . when -PRON- be   above ground , -PRON- say to the dwarf , " now   go and bind the old witch and take -PRON- to the judge . " 
 not long afterward -PRON- come rid by on a tomcat as fast as the wind   and scream horribly . and not long   after that the dwarf be back . " -PRON- be all take care of , " -PRON- say . " the   witch be hang on the gallow . master , what   do -PRON- command now ? " 
 " nothing at the moment , " answer the soldier . " -PRON- can go home , but be   ready when i call -PRON- . " 
 " -PRON- be only necessary , " say the dwarf , " for -PRON- to light -PRON- pipe   with the blue light , and i will be with -PRON- . "   with that -PRON- disappear before -PRON- very eye . 
 the soldier return to the city from which -PRON- have come . -PRON- move into   the good inn and have beautiful   clothe make for -PRON- . then -PRON- tell the innkeeper to furnish -PRON- room   as luxuriously as possible . when -PRON- be   finish -PRON- summon the black dwarf and say , " i serve the king loyally ,   but -PRON- send -PRON- away to starve . for this   i now want revenge . " 
 " what be i to do ? " ask the little man . 
 " late this evening , when the king 's daughter be lie in bed , bring -PRON-   here to -PRON- in -PRON- sleep . -PRON- shall do   maid service for -PRON- . " 
 the dwarf say , " that be an easy thing for -PRON- , but a dangerous thing   for -PRON- . if -PRON- be find out , -PRON- will not go   well for -PRON- . " 
 at the strike of twelve the door open , and the dwarf carry the   king 's daughter in . 
 " aha , be that -PRON- ? " cry the soldier . " get to work now ! go fetch the   broom and sweep the room . " when -PRON-   be finish -PRON- call -PRON- to -PRON- chair , stick -PRON- foot out at -PRON- , and   say , " pull off -PRON- boot , " then throw -PRON- in   -PRON- face , and -PRON- have to pick -PRON- up and clean -PRON- and make -PRON- shine .   -PRON- do everything that -PRON- order   -PRON- to do , without resist , silently , and with half - closed eye . at the   first cock 's crow , the dwarf carry -PRON- to the   royal palace and back to -PRON- bed . 
 the next morning , after the king 's daughter have get up , -PRON- go to   -PRON- father and tell -PRON- that -PRON- have   have an amazing dream . " i be carry away through the street as fast as   lightning and take to a soldier 's room . i   have to serve as -PRON- maid and wait on -PRON- and do common work , sweep the   room , and clean -PRON- boot . -PRON- be only a   dream , but still i be as tired as if i have really do -PRON- all . " 
 " the dream could have be true , " say the king . " i will give -PRON- some   advice . fill -PRON- pocket with pea , then   make a small hole in -PRON- pocket . if -PRON- be carry away again , -PRON- will   fall out and leave a track on the   street . " 
 as the king be thus speak , the dwarf be invisibly stand nearby   and hear everything . 
 that night when -PRON- once again carry the sleep princess through the   street , a few pea do indeed fall out   of -PRON- pocket , but -PRON- do not leave a track , because the cunning dwarf   have already scatter pea in all the   street . and once again the king 's daughter have to do maid service until   the cock crow . 
 the next morning the king send -PRON- people out to look for the track ,   but -PRON- be to no end , for in all the street   there be poor child gather pea and say , " last night -PRON- rain   pea . " 
 " -PRON- must think of something else , " say the king . " leave -PRON- shoe on   when -PRON- go to bed , and before -PRON-   return from there , hide one of -PRON- . i will be sure to find -PRON- . " 
 the black dwarf overheard this proposal , and that evening when the   soldier again want the king 's daughter   bring to -PRON- , the dwarf advise -PRON- against this , say that -PRON- have no   way to protect -PRON- against such   trickery . if the shoe be to be find in -PRON- room , -PRON- would not go well   with -PRON- . 
 " do what i tell -PRON- , " reply the soldier , and for a third night the   king 's daughter have to work like a maid . but   before -PRON- be carry back , -PRON- hide a shoe under the bed . 
 the next morning the king have the entire city search for the shoe ,   and -PRON- be find in the soldier 's room .   the soldier -PRON- , follow the little man 's request , be already   outside the city gate , but -PRON- soon overtake   -PRON- and throw -PRON- into prison . 
 in -PRON- haste , -PRON- have forget to take along -PRON- most valuable thing :   the blue light and the gold . -PRON- have only   one ducat in -PRON- pocket . stand at the window of -PRON- prison and weight   down with chain , -PRON- see one of -PRON-   comrade walk by . -PRON- knock on the glass , and as -PRON- walk by , -PRON-   say , " be so good and bring -PRON- the little   bundle that i leave at the inn . -PRON- will give -PRON- a ducat for -PRON- . " 
 the comrade run forth and bring back the desire thing . as soon as   the soldier be alone again , -PRON- light -PRON-   pipe and summon the black dwarf . " have no fear , " -PRON- say to -PRON- master .   " just go where -PRON- lead -PRON- , and let   everything happen , but take the blue light with -PRON- . " 
 the next day the soldier be try , and although -PRON- have do nothing   wrong , the judge still sentence -PRON- to   death . as -PRON- be be lead out , -PRON- ask the king for one last wish . 
 " what sort of a wish ? " ask the king . 
 " that i may smoke one more pipe on the way . " 
 " -PRON- can smoke three , " answer the king , " but do not think that i will   let -PRON- live . " 
 then the soldier pull out -PRON- pipe and light -PRON- with the blue light . as   soon as a few ring of smoke have rise ,   the dwarf be stand there . -PRON- have a cudgel in -PRON- hand and say , " what   do -PRON- master command ? " 
 " strike the false judge and -PRON- henchman to the ground for -PRON- . and   do not spare the king either , who have   treat -PRON- so badly . " 
 then the dwarf take off like lightning , zip - zap , back and forth , and   everyone -PRON- even touch with -PRON- cudgel   fall to the ground and do not dare to move . the king become afraid . -PRON-   beg for mercy , and in order to save -PRON-   life , -PRON- give to the soldier -PRON- kingdom as well as -PRON- daughter for a   wife . 


 the clever servant 

 a clever hans of this kind be once send out by -PRON- master to look for   a lost cow . -PRON- stay away a long time , and the master think , " -PRON-   faithful han be not spar any pain with -PRON- work . " 
 but when -PRON- do not return at all , the master be afraid that something   have happen to -PRON- , and -PRON- -PRON- go out to look for -PRON- . 
 -PRON- have to look for a long time , but at last -PRON- catch sight of -PRON-   servant run up and down a large field . 
 " now , dear han , " say the master after catch up with -PRON- , " do -PRON-   find the cow that i send -PRON- after ? " 
 " no , master , " -PRON- answer , " i do not find the cow , but then i have not   be look for -PRON- either . " 
 " then what have -PRON- be look for , han ? " 
 " something good . and fortunately i have find -PRON- . " 
 " what be -PRON- ? " 
 " three blackbird , " answer the servant . 
 " and where be -PRON- ? " ask the master . 
 " i see one of -PRON- , i hear the other , and i be chase after the   third , " answer the clever servant . 
 take an example from this . do not trouble yourself about -PRON- master   or -PRON- order . instead , just do what come to -PRON- and make -PRON- happy ,   and then -PRON- will act just as wisely as do clever han . 

 iron han 

 " perhaps -PRON- have have an accident , " say the king , and the follow day   -PRON- send out two other huntsman who be to search for -PRON- , but -PRON- do   not return either . then on the third day , -PRON- summon all -PRON- huntsman ,   and say , " search through the whole forest , and do not give up until -PRON-   have find all three . " 
 but none of these come home again either , nor be any of the hound   from the pack that -PRON- have take with -PRON- ever see again . 
 from that time on , no one dare to go into these wood , and -PRON- lie   there in deep quiet and solitude , and all that one see from there be an   occasional eagle or hawk fly overhead . 
 this last for many year , when an unknown huntsman present -PRON-   to the king seek a position , and -PRON- volunteer to go into the   dangerous wood . 
 the king , however , do not want to give -PRON- permission , and say , " -PRON-   be haunt in there . i be afraid that -PRON- will do no good than do the   other , and that -PRON- will never come out again . " 
 the huntsman answer , " sir , i will proceed at -PRON- own risk . i know   nothing of fear . " 
 the huntsman therefore set forth with -PRON- dog into the wood . -PRON- be   not long before the dog pick up a scent and want to follow -PRON- , but the   dog have run only a few step when -PRON- come to a deep pool , and could go no   further . then a naked arm reach out of the water , seize the dog , and   pull -PRON- under . 
 when the huntsman see that , -PRON- go back and get three man . -PRON-   return with bucket and bale out the water . when -PRON- could see to the   bottom , there be a wild man lie there . -PRON- body be brown like rusty   iron , and -PRON- hair hang over -PRON- face down to -PRON- knee . -PRON- bind -PRON-   with cord and lead -PRON- away to the castle . 
 everyone be greatly astonish at the wild man . the king have -PRON- put   into an iron cage in -PRON- courtyard , forbid , on pain of death , that the   cage door be open . the queen -PRON- be to safeguard the key . 
 from this time forth everyone could once again go safely into the   wood . 
 the king have a son of eight year . one day -PRON- be play in the   courtyard , and during -PRON- game -PRON- golden ball fall into the cage . 
 the boy run to the cage and say , " give -PRON- -PRON- ball . " 
 " not until -PRON- have open the door for -PRON- , " answer the man . 
 " no , " say the boy , " i will not do that . the king have forbid -PRON- , "   and -PRON- run away . 
 the next day -PRON- come again and demand -PRON- ball . 
 the wild man say , " open -PRON- door , " but the boy would not do so . 
 on the third day the king have ride out hunting , and the boy go once   more and say , " even if i want to , i could not open the door . i do not   have the key . " 
 then the wild man say , " -PRON- be under -PRON- mother 's pillow . -PRON- can get   -PRON- there . " 
 the boy , who want to have -PRON- ball back , throw all caution to the   wind , and get the key . the door open with difficulty , and the boy   pinch -PRON- finger . when -PRON- be open , the wild man step out , give -PRON-   the golden ball , and hurry away . 
 the boy become afraid . -PRON- cry out and call after -PRON- , " oh , wild   man , do not go away , or i shall get a beating . " 
 the wild man turn around , pick -PRON- up , set -PRON- on -PRON- shoulder ,   and run into the wood . 
 when the king come home -PRON- notice the empty cage and ask the queen   how -PRON- have happen . -PRON- know nothing about -PRON- , and look for the key ,   but -PRON- be go . -PRON- call the boy , but no one answer . 
 the king send out people to look for -PRON- in the field , but -PRON- do not   find -PRON- . then -PRON- could easily guess what have happen , and great sorrow   rule at the royal court . 
 after the wild man have once more reach the dark wood , -PRON- set the boy   down from -PRON- shoulder , and say to -PRON- , " -PRON- will never again see -PRON-   father and mother , but i will keep -PRON- with -PRON- , for -PRON- have set -PRON- free ,   and i have compassion for -PRON- . if -PRON- do what i tell -PRON- , -PRON- will go well   with -PRON- . i have enough   treasure and gold , more than anyone in the   world . " 
 -PRON- make a bed of moss for the boy , upon which -PRON- fall asleep . the next   morning the man take -PRON- to a spring and say , " look , this golden spring   be as bright and clear as crystal . -PRON- shall sit beside -PRON- , and take care   that nothing fall into -PRON- , otherwise -PRON- will be pollute . i shall come   every evening to see if -PRON- have obey -PRON- order . " 
 the boy sit down at the edge of the spring , and see how sometimes a   golden fish and sometimes a golden snake appear from within , and take   care that nothing fall into -PRON- . as -PRON- be thus sit there , -PRON- finger   hurt -PRON- so fiercely that -PRON- involuntarily put -PRON- into the water . -PRON-   quickly pull -PRON- out again , but see that -PRON- be completely cover with   gold . however hard -PRON- try to wipe the gold off again , -PRON-   be to no   avail . 
 that evening iron han come back , look at the boy , and say , " what   have happen to the spring ? " 
 " nothing , nothing , " -PRON- answer , hold -PRON- finger behind -PRON- back , so   the man would not be able to see -PRON- . 
 but the man say , " -PRON- have dip -PRON- finger into the water . this   time i will let -PRON- go , but be careful that -PRON- do not again let anything   else fall in . " 
 very early the next morning the boy be already sit by the spring   and keep watch . -PRON- finger hurt -PRON- again , and -PRON- rub -PRON- across -PRON-   head . then unfortunately a hair fall down into the spring . -PRON- quickly   pull -PRON- out , but -PRON- be already completely cover with gold . 
 iron han come , and already know what have happen . " -PRON- have let a   hair fall into the spring , " -PRON- say . " i will overlook this once more , but   if -PRON- happen a third time then the spring will be pollute , and -PRON- will   no longer be able to stay with -PRON- . " 
 on the third day the boy sit by the spring and do not move -PRON- finger ,   however much -PRON- hurt -PRON- . but time pass slowly for -PRON- , and -PRON- look at   the reflection of -PRON- face in the water . while do this -PRON- bend down   low and low , want to look straight into -PRON- eye , when -PRON- long   hair fall from -PRON- shoulder down into the water . -PRON- quickly straighten   -PRON- up , but all the hair on -PRON- head be already cover with gold ,   and glisten like the sun . -PRON- can imagine how frightened the poor boy   be . -PRON- take -PRON- handkerchief and tie -PRON- around -PRON- head , so that the man   would not be able to see -PRON- hair . 
 when the man come , -PRON- already know everything , and say , " untie the   handkerchief . " 
 the golden hair stream forth , and no excuse that the boy could offer   be of any use . 
 " -PRON- have fail the test , and -PRON- can stay here no longer . go out into   the world . there -PRON- will learn what poverty be . but because -PRON- be not   bad at heart , and because i mean well by -PRON- , i will grant -PRON- one thing :   if -PRON- be ever in need , go into the wood and cry out , ' iron han , ' and   then i will come and help -PRON- . -PRON- power be great , great than -PRON- think ,   and i have more than enough gold and silver . " 
 then the prince leave the wood , and walk by beat and unbeaten path   on and on until at last -PRON- reach a great city . there -PRON- look for work ,   but -PRON- be not able to find any , because -PRON- have not learn a trade by   which -PRON- could make a living . finally -PRON- go to the castle and ask if   -PRON- would take -PRON- in . 
 the people at court do not at all know how -PRON- would be able to use   -PRON- , but -PRON- take a liking to -PRON- , and tell -PRON- to stay . finally the cook   take -PRON- into service , say that -PRON- could carry wood and water , and rake   up the ash . 
 once when no one else be at hand , the cook order -PRON- to carry the   food to the royal table . because -PRON- do not want -PRON- to see -PRON- golden   hair , -PRON- keep -PRON- cap on . nothing like this have ever before happen to   the king , and -PRON- say , " when -PRON- approach the royal table -PRON- must take   -PRON- hat off . " 
 " oh , sir , " -PRON- answer , " i can not . i have an ugly scab on -PRON- head . " 
 then the king summon the cook and scold -PRON- , ask -PRON- how -PRON-   could take such a boy into -PRON- service . the cook be to send -PRON- away at   once . however , the cook have pity on -PRON- , and let -PRON- trade place with   gardener 's boy . 
 now the boy have to plant and water the garden , hoe and dig , and put up   with the wind and bad weather . 
 once in summer when -PRON- be work alone in the garden , the day be so   hot that -PRON- take -PRON- hat off so that the air would cool -PRON- . as the sun   shone on -PRON- hair -PRON- glisten and sparkle . the ray fall into the   princess 's bedroom , and -PRON- jump up to see what -PRON- be . 
 -PRON- see the boy and call out to -PRON- , " boy , bring -PRON- a bouquet of   flower . " 
 -PRON- quickly put on -PRON- cap , pick some wildflower , and tie -PRON-   together . 
 as -PRON- be climb the step with -PRON- , the gardener meet -PRON- and say ,   " how can -PRON- take the princess a bouquet of such common flower ? quick ! go   and get some other one , and choose only the most beautiful and the rare   one . " 
 " oh , no , " reply the boy , the wild one have a strong scent , and -PRON-   will like -PRON- better . " 
 when -PRON- get into the room , the princess say , " take -PRON- cap off . -PRON- be   not polite to keep -PRON- on in -PRON- presence . " 
 -PRON- again respond , " i can not do that . i have a scabby head . " 
 -PRON- , however , take hold of -PRON- cap and pull -PRON- off . -PRON- golden hair   roll down onto -PRON- shoulder , and -PRON- be a magnificent sight . -PRON- want   to run away , but -PRON- hold -PRON- by -PRON- arm , and give -PRON- a handful of   ducat . -PRON- go away with -PRON- , but -PRON- do not care about the gold . 
 -PRON- take the gold piece to the gardener , say , " i be give these   thing to -PRON- child for -PRON- to play with . " 
 the next day the princess call to -PRON- again , ask -PRON- to bring -PRON-   a bouquet of wildflower . when -PRON- go in with -PRON- , -PRON- immediately grab   at -PRON- cap , and want to take -PRON- away from -PRON- , but -PRON- hold -PRON- firmly   with both hand . -PRON- again give -PRON- a handful of ducat . -PRON- do not want   to keep -PRON- , give -PRON- instead to the gardener for -PRON- child to play   with . on the third day -PRON- be no different . -PRON- be not able to take -PRON-   cap away from -PRON- , and -PRON- do not want -PRON- gold . 
 not long afterwards , the country be overrun by war . the king gather   together -PRON- people , not know whether or not fight back against the   enemy , who be more powerful and have a large army . 
 then the gardener 's boy say , " i be grow up , and i want to go to war   as well . just give -PRON- a horse . " 
 the other laugh and say , " after -PRON- have leave , then look for one by   -PRON- . -PRON- will leave one behind for -PRON- in the stable . " 
 after -PRON- have leave , -PRON- go into the stable , and lead the horse out . -PRON-   have a lame foot , and -PRON- limp higgledy - hop , higgledy - hop . 
 nevertheless -PRON- mount -PRON- , and ride away into the dark wood . when -PRON-   come to the edge of   the wood , -PRON- call " iron han " three time so   loudly that -PRON- sound through the tree . 
 the wild man appear immediately , and say , " what do -PRON- need ? " 
 " i ne a strong steed , for i be go to war . " 
 " that -PRON- shall have , and even more than -PRON- be ask for . " 
 then the wild man go back into the wood , and before long a   stable - boy come out of the wood lead a horse . -PRON- be snort with -PRON-   nostril , and could hardly be restrain . behind -PRON- follow a large   army of warrior , outfit with iron armor , and with -PRON- sword   flash in the sun . 
 the youth leave -PRON- three - legged horse with the stable - boy , mount the   other horse , and ride at the head of the army . when -PRON- approach the   battlefield , a large number of the king 's man have already fall , and   before long the other would have to retreat . then the youth gallop up   with -PRON- iron army and attack the enemy like a storm ,   beat down   all who oppose -PRON- . -PRON- try to flee , but the youth be right behind   -PRON- , and do not stop , until not a single man be leave . 
 however , instead of return to the king , -PRON- lead -PRON- army on a   roundabout way back into the wood , and then call for iron han . 
 " what do -PRON- need ? " ask the wild man . 
 " take back -PRON- steed and -PRON- army , and give -PRON- -PRON- three - legged horse   again . " 
 -PRON- all happen just as -PRON- have request , and -PRON- ride home on -PRON-   three - legged horse . 
 when the king return to -PRON- castle , -PRON- daughter go to meet -PRON- ,   and congratulate -PRON- for -PRON- victory . 
 " i be not the one who earn the victory , " -PRON- say , " but a strange   knight who come to -PRON- aid with -PRON- army . " 
 the daughter want to hear who the strange knight be , but the king   do not know , and say , " -PRON- pursue the enemy , and i do not see -PRON-   again . " 
 -PRON- ask the gardener where -PRON- boy be , but -PRON- laugh and say , " -PRON-   have just come home on -PRON- three - legged horse . the other have be make   fun of -PRON- and shout , ' here come -PRON- higgledy - hop back again . ' -PRON-   also ask -PRON- , ' under what hedge have -PRON- be lie asleep all this   time ? ' but -PRON- say , ' i do good than anyone else . without -PRON- -PRON- would   have go badly . ' and then -PRON- laugh at -PRON- all the more . " 
 the king say to -PRON- daughter , " i will proclaim a great festival . -PRON-   shall last for three day , and -PRON- shall throw a golden apple . perhaps the   unknown knight will come . " 
 when the festival be announce , the youth go out into the wood and   call iron han . 
 " what do -PRON- need ? " -PRON- ask . 
 " to catch the princess 's golden apple . " 
 " -PRON- be as good as do , " say iron han . " and further , -PRON- shall have a   suit of red armor and ride on a spirited chestnut horse . " 
 when the day come , the youth gallop up , take -PRON- place among the   knight , and be recognize by no one . the princess come forward and throw   a golden apple to the knight . -PRON- be the only one who catch -PRON- , and as   soon as -PRON- have -PRON- , -PRON- gallop away . 
 on the second day iron han have outfit -PRON- as a white knight , and   have give -PRON- a white horse . again -PRON- be the only one who catch the   apple . without linger an instant , -PRON- gallop away with -PRON- . 
 the king grow angry and say , " that be not allow . -PRON- must appear   before -PRON- and tell -PRON- -PRON- name . " 
 -PRON- give the order that if the knight who catch the apple , be to go   away again , -PRON- should pursue -PRON- , and if -PRON- would not come back   willingly , -PRON- be to strike and stab at -PRON- . 
 on the third day , -PRON- receive from iron han a suit of black armor and   a black horse , and -PRON- catch the apple again . but when -PRON- be gallop   away with -PRON- , the king 's man pursue -PRON- , and one of -PRON- get so close to   -PRON- that -PRON- wound the youth 's leg with the point of -PRON- sword . in spite   of this -PRON- escape from -PRON- , but -PRON- horse jump so violently that -PRON-   helmet fall from -PRON- head , and -PRON- could see that -PRON- have golden hair .   -PRON- ride back and report everything to the king . 
 the next day the princess ask the gardener about -PRON- boy . 
 " -PRON- be at work in the garden . the strange fellow have be at the   festival too . -PRON- come home only yesterday evening . and furthermore , -PRON-   show -PRON- child three golden apple that -PRON- have win . " 
 the king have -PRON- summon , and -PRON- appear , again with -PRON- cap on -PRON-   head . but the princess go up to -PRON- and take -PRON- off . -PRON- golden hair   fall down over -PRON- shoulder , and -PRON- be so handsome that everyone be   amazed . 
 " be -PRON- the knight who come to the festival every day , each time in a   different color , and who catch the three golden apple ? " ask the king . 
 " yes , " -PRON- answer , " and here be the apple , " take -PRON- out of -PRON-   pocket , and return -PRON- to the king . " if -PRON- ne more proof , -PRON- can   see the wound that -PRON- man give -PRON- when -PRON- be chase -PRON- . but i be   also the knight who help -PRON- to -PRON- victory over -PRON- enemy . " 
 " if -PRON- can perform deed like these then -PRON- be not a gardener 's boy .   tell -PRON- , who be -PRON- father ? " 
 " -PRON- father be a powerful king , and i have as much gold as i may   need . " 
 " i can see , " say the king , " that i owe -PRON- thank . can i do anything   for -PRON- ? " 
 " yes , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- can indeed . give -PRON- -PRON- daughter for -PRON-   wife . " 
 the maiden laugh and say , " -PRON- do not care much for ceremony , but i   already have see from -PRON- golden hair that -PRON- be not a gardener 's boy , "   and then -PRON- go and kiss -PRON- . 
 -PRON- father and mother come to the wedding , and be fill with joy ,   for -PRON- have give up all hope of ever see -PRON- dear son again . 
 while -PRON- sit at the wedding feast , the music suddenly stop ,   the door open , and a proud king come in with a great retinue . -PRON- walk   up to the youth , embrace -PRON- , and say , " i be iron han . i have be   transform into a wild man by a magic spell , but -PRON- have break the   spell . all the treasure that i posses shall belong to -PRON- . " 


 lazy heinz 

 " -PRON- be in truth a heavy burden , " -PRON- say , " and a tiresome job , to drive   such a goat out to the field year in and year out until late in the fall .   if i could only lie down and sleep at -PRON- ! but no , i must keep -PRON- eye open   so -PRON- will not damage the young tree , or force -PRON- way through the hedge   into a garden , or even run away altogether . how can i get some rest and   enjoy life ? " 
 -PRON- sit down , collect -PRON- thought , and consider how -PRON- could lift   this burden from -PRON- shoulder . for a long time -PRON- thought lead to   nothing , but suddenly -PRON- be as if scale be remove from -PRON- eye . 
 " i know what i will do , " -PRON- shout . " i will marry fat trina . -PRON- too   have a goat , and -PRON- can drive -PRON- out with -PRON- , and then i shall no   long have to torment -PRON- . " 
 so heinz get up , set -PRON- weary limb into motion , and walk across the   street , for -PRON- be no further than that , to where fat trina 's parent   live , and ask for the hand in marriage of -PRON- industrious and   virtuous daughter . 
 -PRON- parent do not think about -PRON- for long . " bird of a feather , flock   together , " -PRON- think , and give -PRON- consent . 
 so fat trina become heinz 's wife , and drive out both of the goat .   heinz now enjoy life , have no work to rest from , but -PRON- own laziness . 
 -PRON- go out with -PRON- only now and then , say , " i 'm do this so that   afterwards i will enjoy rest more . otherwise i shall lose all feeling   for -PRON- . " 
 however , fat trina be no less lazy . 
 " dear heinz , " -PRON- say one day , " why should -PRON- make -PRON- life so   miserable , ruin the good day of -PRON- youth , when there be no need for   -PRON- ? the two goat disturb -PRON- good sleep every morning with -PRON-   bleating . would not -PRON- be good for -PRON- to give -PRON- to -PRON- neighbor , who   will give -PRON- a beehive for -PRON- ? -PRON- will put the beehive in a sunny place   behind the house , and then not give -PRON- any more thought . bee do not have   to be take care of , nor drive into the field . -PRON- fly out and find   -PRON- way home again by -PRON- , and -PRON- collect honey without any   effort at all on -PRON- part . " 
 " -PRON- have speak like a sensible woman , " reply heinz . " -PRON- will carry   out -PRON- proposal without delay . and furthermore , honey taste better and   be more nourishing than goat 's milk , and -PRON- keep longer too . " 
 the neighbor willingly give -PRON- a beehive for the two goat . the bee   fly tirelessly in and out from early morning until late evening , fill   the hive with the good honey . thus that fall - time , heinz be able to take   out a whole jugful . 
 -PRON- place the jug on a shelf on -PRON- bedroom wall . fear that -PRON-   may be steal , or that the mouse may get into -PRON- , trina bring in a   stout hazel stick and put -PRON- beside -PRON- bed , so that -PRON- would be able to   reach -PRON- without have to get up , and then from -PRON- place in bed drive   away the uninvited guest . 
 lazy heinz do not like to get out of bed before noon . " -PRON- who rise   early , " -PRON- would say , " waste -PRON- wealth . " 
 one morning when -PRON- be still lie in the feather in broad daylight ,   rest from -PRON- long sleep , -PRON- say to -PRON- wife , " woman be fond of   sweet , and -PRON- have be snack on the honey . -PRON- would be good for -PRON-   to exchange -PRON- for a goose with a young gosling , before -PRON- eat -PRON- all   up . " 
 " but not before -PRON- have a child to take care of -PRON- . " reply trina .   be i to torment -PRON- with the young goose , waste all -PRON- energy on -PRON-   for no reason ? " 
 " do -PRON- think , " say heinz , " that the boy will tend goose ? nowadays   child no longer obey . -PRON- do just as -PRON- please , because -PRON- think   that -PRON- be smart than -PRON- parent , just like that servant who be   suppose to look for the cow and chase after three blackbird . " 
 " oh , " reply trina , " -PRON- will get -PRON- if -PRON- do not do what i say . i   will take a stick and tan -PRON- hide with more blow than can be count . " 
 " see here , heinz , " -PRON- shout in -PRON- fervor , seize the stick that   -PRON- intend to use to drive away the mouse . " see here ! this be how i will   beat -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- strike forth , unfortunately hit the jug of honey above the bed .   the jug strike against the wall and fall down in piece . the fine honey   flow out onto the floor . 
 " there lie the goose with the young gosling , " say heinz . " and -PRON- do   not need to be tend . but -PRON- be lucky that the jug do not fall on -PRON-   head . -PRON- have every reason to be satisfied with -PRON- fate . " 
 then notice that there be still some honey in one of the piece of   the jug , -PRON- reach out for -PRON- , say quite happily , " wife , let -PRON- enjoy   the leftover , and then -PRON- will rest a little from the fright -PRON- have have .   what do -PRON- matter if -PRON- get up a little later than usual ? the day will   be long enough . " 
 " yes , " answer trina , " there be always time enough . -PRON- know , the   snail be once invite to a wedding and start on -PRON- way , but arrive at   the child 's baptism . in front of the house -PRON- fall over the fence , and   say , ' haste make waste . ' " 

 the hurd 

 a young man have court the lazy girl , and the wedding be about to take place . on the eve of the wedding , the industrious girl be dance merrily about in -PRON- beautiful dress , and the bride say , 

 the duration of life 

 " thirty year , " answer god . " be that all right with -PRON- ? " 
 " oh , lord , " reply the donkey , " that be a long time . think of -PRON- tiresome   existence carry heavy load from morning until night , drag bag of   grain to the mill so that other may eat bread , only to be cheer along   and refresh with kick and blow ! spare -PRON- part of this long time . " 
 so god have mercy and give -PRON- eighteen year . the donkey go away   satisfied , and the dog make -PRON- appearance . 
 " how long do -PRON- want to live ? " say god to -PRON- . " thirty year be too   much for the donkey , but -PRON- will be satisfied with that long . " 
 " lord , " answer the dog . " be that -PRON- will ? just think how much i have   to run . -PRON- foot will not hold out so long . and what can i do but growl and   run from one corner to another after i have lose -PRON- voice for bark and   -PRON- tooth for bite ? " 
 god see that -PRON- be right , and -PRON- take away twelve year . then come the   monkey . 
 " surely -PRON- would like to live thirty year , " say the lord to -PRON- . " -PRON-   do not need to work like the donkey and the dog , and be always have   fun . " 
 " oh , lord , " -PRON- answer , " so -PRON- appear , but -PRON- be different . when -PRON-   rain porridge , i do not have a spoon . i be always suppose to be play   funny trick and make face so people will laugh , but when -PRON- give -PRON-   an apple and i bite into -PRON- , -PRON- be always sour . how often be sorrow hide   behind a joke . i can not put up with all that for thirty year ! " 
 god have mercy and give -PRON- ten year . finally man make -PRON- appearance .   cheerful , healthy , and refresh , -PRON- ask god to determine the duration   of -PRON- life . 
 " -PRON- shall live thirty year , " speak the lord . " be that enough for -PRON- ? " 
 " what a short time ! " cry the man . " when i have build a house and a fire   be burn on -PRON- own hearth , when i have plant tree that blossom and   bear fruit , and be just begin to enjoy life , then i be to die . oh ,   lord , extend -PRON- time . " 
 " i will add the donkey 's eighteen year , " say god . 
 " that be not enough , " reply the man . 
 " -PRON- shall also have the dog 's twelve year . " 
 " still too little . " 
 " well , then , " say god , " i will give -PRON- the monkey 's ten year as well ,   but -PRON- shall receive no more . " 
 the man go away , but -PRON- be not satisfied . 
 thus man live seventy year . the first thirty be -PRON- human year , and   -PRON- quickly disappear . here -PRON- be healthy and happy ; -PRON- work with   pleasure , and enjoy -PRON- existence . the donkey 's eighteen year follow .   here one burden after the other be lay on -PRON- ; -PRON- carry the grain that   feed other , and -PRON- faithful service be reward with kick and blow .   then come the dog 's twelve year , and -PRON- lie in the corner growl , no   longer have tooth with which to bite . and when this time be past , the   monkey 's ten year conclude . now man be weak head and foolish ; -PRON- do   silly thing and become a laughingstock for child . 



 lean lisa 

 one evening -PRON- be lie in bed , too tired to move a muscle but still   unable to fall asleep , when -PRON- poke -PRON- husband in the side with -PRON-   elbow and say , " lenz , listen to what i just think of . if i be to find   a florin , and -PRON- be to give -PRON- another one , then -PRON- would borrow yet another   one , and -PRON- would give -PRON- still another one , and then i would take the four   florin and buy a young cow . " 
 the man agree . " i do not know , " -PRON- say , " where -PRON- be to get that florin   -PRON- be suppose to give -PRON- , but after -PRON- have the money to buy a cow , -PRON-   will be a good thing . " then -PRON- add , " i 'm look forward to the time   after the cow calf , so i can have some good refreshing milk to   drink . " 
 " the milk be not for -PRON- , " say the woman . " -PRON- will let the calf suck ,   so -PRON- will grow large and fat , and -PRON- can sell -PRON- for a good price . " 
 " of course , " say the man , " but -PRON- will not hurt anything if -PRON- take a   little milk . " 
 " who teach -PRON- about cow ? " say the woman . " i will not allow -PRON- , whether   -PRON- will hurt anything or not . -PRON- can stand on -PRON- head , but -PRON- will not   get a single drop of milk . lanky lenz , just because -PRON- be always hungry ,   -PRON- think that -PRON- can devour everything that -PRON- hard work bring in . " 
 " woman , " say the man , " be quiet , or -PRON- will plant one on the side of -PRON-   face . " 
 " what ! " -PRON- cry . " be -PRON- threaten -PRON- ! -PRON- glutton ! -PRON-   good - for - nothing ! -PRON- lazybone ! " 
 -PRON- be reach for -PRON- hair , but lanky lenz raise -PRON- up , take   hold of both -PRON- skinny arm with one hand , then push -PRON- head into the   pillow with the other one . -PRON- hold -PRON- there and let -PRON- scold until -PRON-   fall asleep from exhaustion . 
 the next morning when -PRON- wake up , i do not know whether -PRON- continue   to quarrel , or whether -PRON- go out to look for the florin that -PRON- want   to find . 

 the two traveler 

 the shoemaker take a mighty drink , and the storm on -PRON- face begin to   clear away . -PRON- give the bottle back to the tailor , and say , " i take a   hearty gulp . -PRON- have a lot to say about heavy drinking , but not    much about great thirst . shall -PRON- travel together ? " 
 " all right , " answer the tailor , " but only if only -PRON- suit -PRON- to go   to a big town where there be no lack of work . " 
 " that be just where i want to go , " answer the shoemaker . " in a small   place there be nothing to be earn , and in the country people prefer to   go barefoot . " 
 thus -PRON- travel on together , always set one foot before the other   like a weasel in the snow . both of -PRON- have time enough , but little to   eat . when -PRON- reach a town -PRON- go about look for work , and   because the tailor look so lively and merry , and have such fine red   cheek , every one give -PRON- work willingly , and if -PRON- be lucky , the   master 's daughter give -PRON- a kiss as well . 
 whenever -PRON- meet up with the shoemaker , the tailor always have the most in   -PRON- bundle . the ill - temper shoemaker would make a sour face , think ,   " the great the rascal , the good the luck . " 
 but the tailor would begin   to laugh and to sing , and share everything -PRON- have with -PRON- comrade . if a   couple of penny jingle in -PRON- pocket , -PRON- order drink , then   cheerfully thump the table until the glass dance . -PRON- motto be " easy   come , easy go . " 
 after -PRON- have travel for some time , -PRON- come to a great forest through   which pass the way to the capital . two footpath lead through   -PRON- , one of which be a seven day ' journey and the other only two , but   neither of -PRON- know which way be the short one . -PRON- sit down beneath   an oak tree and discuss together what preparation to make , and for how   many day -PRON- should provide -PRON- with bread . 
 the shoemaker say , " one must plan ahead for the unexpected . i will take   with -PRON- bread for a week . " 
 " what ? " say the tailor . " haul bread for seven day on one 's back like a   beast of burden and not be able to look about ? i shall trust in god , and   not trouble -PRON- about anything . the money i have in -PRON- pocket be as   good in summer as in winter , but in hot weather bread dry out and get   moldy on top of that . even -PRON- coat reach only to -PRON- ankle . why   should not -PRON- find the right way ? bread for two day , and that be enough . " 
 therefore each person buy -PRON- own bread , and then -PRON- try -PRON- luck   in the forest .     -PRON- be as quiet there as in a church . no wind stir , no brook murmur ,   no bird sing , and no sunbeam find -PRON- way through the thickly leave   branch . the shoemaker do not speak a word . the bread weigh so heavily   on -PRON- back that the sweat stream down -PRON- cross and gloomy face . 
 the tailor , however , be quite merry . walk on with a spring in each   step , -PRON- whistle on a leaf , or sing a song , and think to -PRON- , " god   in heaven must be pleased that i be so happy . " 
 this last two day , but on the third there be still no end to the   forest , and the tailor have eat up all -PRON- bread . thus -PRON- heart sink   down a yard deep . nevertheless , -PRON- do not lose courage , but rely on   god and on -PRON- luck . on the evening of the third day -PRON- lie down hungry   under a tree , and rise again the next morning still hungry . the fourth day   be   the same , and when the shoemaker seat -PRON- on a fallen tree and   devour -PRON- dinner the tailor be only a spectator . 
 if -PRON- beg for a little piece of bread , the other laugh mockingly , and   say , " -PRON- have always be so merry . now -PRON- can see for once what -PRON- be   like to be sad . bird that s too early in the morning be catch by the   hawk in the evening . " 
 in short , -PRON- be merciless . on the fifth morning the poor tailor could no   longer stand up and be hardly able to utter one word for weakness . -PRON-   cheek be white , and -PRON- eye be red . 
 then the shoemaker say to -PRON- , " i will give -PRON- a bit of bread today , but   in return for -PRON- , i will put out -PRON- right eye . " 
 the unhappy tailor , who still wish to save -PRON- life , have to submit . -PRON-   weep once more with both eye , and then hold -PRON- out , and the shoemaker ,   who have a heart of stone , put out -PRON- right eye with a sharp knife . the   tailor remember what -PRON- mother have once say to -PRON- when -PRON- have be   snack in the pantry : " eat whatev -PRON- can , and suffer whatev -PRON-   must . " 
 after eat -PRON- dearly - buy bread , -PRON- get on -PRON- leg again , forget -PRON-   misery , and comfort -PRON- with the thought that -PRON- could always see   enough with one eye . but on the sixth day , hunger make -PRON- feel again ,   almost consume -PRON- heart . that evening -PRON- fall down by a tree , and on   the seventh morning -PRON- be too weak to get up , and death be close at   hand . 
 then the shoemaker say , " i will show mercy and give -PRON- bread once more ,   but -PRON- shall not have -PRON- for nothing . i shall put out -PRON- other eye for   -PRON- . " 
 and now the tailor feel how careless -PRON- life have be , pray to god for   forgiveness , and say , " do what -PRON- will . i will bear what i must , but   remember that -PRON- lord god do not always look on passively , and that an   hour will come when the evil deed which -PRON- have do to -PRON- , and which i   have not deserve of -PRON- , will be requite . when time be good with -PRON-   i share what i have with -PRON- . -PRON- trade be such that one stitch must follow   another . if i no longer have -PRON- eye and can sew no more , i must go   beg . at any rate do not leave -PRON- here alone when i be blind , or i   shall die of hunger . " 
 the shoemaker , however , who have drive god out of -PRON- heart , take the   knife and put out -PRON- left eye . then -PRON- give -PRON- a bit of bread to eat ,   hold out a stick to -PRON- , and lead -PRON- on behind -PRON- . 
 at sunset , -PRON- get out of the forest , and before -PRON- in an open field   stand the gallow . the shoemaker lead the blind tailor there , and then go   on -PRON- way , leave -PRON- there alone . weariness , pain , and hunger make the   wretched man fall asleep , and -PRON- sleep the whole night . -PRON- awake at dawn ,   not know where -PRON- be . 
 two poor sinner be hang on the gallow , with a crow sit on the head   of each of -PRON- . then one of the man who have be hang begin to speak ,   and say , " brother , be -PRON- awake ? " 
 " yes , i be awake , " answer the second . 
 " then i will tell -PRON- something , " say the first . " the dew that this night   have fall down over -PRON- from the gallow give everyone who wash   -PRON- with -PRON- -PRON- eye again . if the blind know this , how many would   regain -PRON- sight who do not believe that to be possible ? " 
 hear this the tailor take -PRON- handkerchief , press -PRON- on the grass ,   and when -PRON- be moist with dew , wash the socket of -PRON- eye with -PRON- .   immediately what the man on the gallow have say come true , and a pair of   healthy new eye fill the socket . -PRON- be not long before the tailor see   the sun rise from behind the mountain . in the plain before -PRON- lie the   great   royal city with -PRON- magnificent gate and hundred tower , and the golden   ball and cross on the spire begin to shine . -PRON- could distinguish every   leaf on the tree , see the bird fly past , and the gnat dance in the   air . -PRON- take a needle out of -PRON- pocket , and as -PRON- could thread -PRON- as well   as ever -PRON- have do , -PRON- heart dance with delight . 
 -PRON- throw -PRON- on -PRON- knee , thank god for the mercy -PRON- have show -PRON- ,   and say -PRON- morning prayer , not forget to pray for the poor sinner   who be hang there swing against each other in the wind like the   pendulum of clock . then -PRON- take -PRON- bundle on -PRON- back and soon forget   the sorrow -PRON- have endure , and go on -PRON- way singing and whistling . 
 the first thing -PRON- come to be a brown foal freely run about the   field . -PRON- catch -PRON- by the mane , and want to mount -PRON- and ride into the   town . the foal , however , beg for -PRON- freedom . " i be still too young , "   -PRON- say . " even a light tailor such as -PRON- be would break -PRON- back in two .   let -PRON- go until i have grow strong . perhaps a time may come when i can   reward -PRON- for -PRON- . " 
 " run off , " say the tailor . " i see that -PRON- be still only a   whippersnapper . "   -PRON- give -PRON- a touch on -PRON- back with a switch , whereupon -PRON- kick up -PRON-   hind leg for joy , jump over hedge and ditch , and gallop away into   the open country . 
 the little tailor have eat nothing since the day before . " the sun fill   -PRON- eye , " -PRON- say , " but bread do not fill -PRON- mouth . the first thing that   come -PRON- way and be even half edible will have to suffer for -PRON- . " 
 in the meantime a stork step solemnly over the meadow towards -PRON- .   " stop , stop , " cry the tailor , and seize -PRON- by the leg . " i do not know   if -PRON- be good to eat or not , but -PRON- hunger leave -PRON- no great choice . i   must cut -PRON- head off , and roast -PRON- . " 
 " do n't do that , " reply the stork . " i be a sacred bird that bring   mankind great profit , and no one harm -PRON- . if -PRON- spare -PRON- life i will be   able do -PRON- good in some other way . " 
 " then be off , cousin longleg , " say the tailor . the stork rise up , let   -PRON- long leg hang down , and fly gently away . 
 " what be to be the end of this ? " say the tailor to -PRON- at last . " -PRON-   hunger grow great and great , and -PRON- stomach more and more empty .   whatev come in -PRON- way now be lose . " 
 then -PRON- see a couple of young   duck which be on a pond come swimming towards -PRON- . " -PRON- come just at   the right moment , " say -PRON- , and lay hold of one of -PRON- and be about to   wr -PRON- neck . 
 with this an old duck which be hide among the reed , begin to squawk   loudly . -PRON- swim to -PRON- with open beak , beg -PRON- urgently to spare -PRON-   dear child . " can -PRON- not imagine , " say -PRON- , " how -PRON- mother would   mourn if someone want to carry -PRON- off , and do an end to -PRON- . " 
 " quiet down , " say the good - natured tailor . " -PRON- shall keep -PRON-   child , " and -PRON- set the capture one back into the water . 
 when -PRON- turn around , -PRON- be stand in front of an old tree which be   partly hollow , and see some wild bee fly in and out of -PRON- . " there i   shall find the reward of -PRON- good deed , " say the tailor . " the honey will   refresh -PRON- . " 
 but the queen bee come out and threaten -PRON- , say , " if -PRON- touch -PRON-   people and destroy -PRON- nest -PRON- sting shall pierce -PRON- skin like ten   thousand red - hot needle . but if -PRON- leave -PRON- in peace and go -PRON- way -PRON-   will do -PRON- a service for -PRON- another time . " 
 the little tailor see that here also nothing be to be do . three dish   empty and nothing on the fourth be a bad dinner . -PRON- drag -PRON-   therefore with -PRON- starve - out stomach into the town , and as -PRON- be just   strike twelve , all be ready - cook for -PRON- in the inn , and -PRON- be able   to sit down at once to dinner . 
 when -PRON- be satisfied -PRON- say , " now i will get to work . " -PRON- go around   the town , seek a master , and soon find a good situation . because -PRON-   already have thoroughly learn -PRON- trade , -PRON- be not long before -PRON- become   famous , and everyone want to have a new coat make by the little tailor .   -PRON- reputation grow day by day . 
 " i can go no further in skill , " say -PRON- , " and yet thing improve every   day . " at last the king appoint -PRON- court tailor . 
 but strange thing do happen in the world . on that very same day -PRON-   former   comrade the shoemaker also become court shoemaker . when the latter caught   sight of the tailor , and see that -PRON- once more have two healthy eye , -PRON-   conscience trouble -PRON- . " before -PRON- take revenge on -PRON- , " -PRON- think to   -PRON- , " i must dig a pit for -PRON- . " 
 -PRON- , however , who dig a pit for another , fall into -PRON- -PRON- . in the   evening when work be over and -PRON- be grow dark , -PRON- sneak to the king   and say , " -PRON- majesty , the tailor be an arrogant fellow and have boast   that -PRON- will get the golden crown back again that be lose age ago . " 
 " that would please -PRON- , " say the king , and the next morning -PRON- have the   tailor bring   before -PRON- , and order -PRON- to get the crown back again , or   to leave the city forever . 
 " aha , " think the tailor . " a rogue give more than -PRON- have . if the   bad - temper king want -PRON- to do what no one else can do , i will not wait   until morning , but will leave town at once . " 
 therefore -PRON- tie up -PRON- bundle , but once outside the gate -PRON- could not   help be sorry to give up -PRON- good fortune and turn -PRON- back on the   city in which all have go so well for -PRON- . -PRON- come to the pond where -PRON-   have make the acquaintance of the duck . at that very moment the old one   whose young one -PRON- have spar be sit there by the shore , preen   -PRON- with -PRON- beak . -PRON- know -PRON- again instantly , and ask why -PRON- be   hang -PRON- head so . 
 " -PRON- will not be surprised when -PRON- hear what have happen to -PRON- , " reply   the tailor , and tell -PRON- -PRON- fate . 
 " if that be all , " say the duck , " -PRON- can help -PRON- . the crown fall into the   water , and -PRON- lie down below at the bottom . -PRON- will soon bring -PRON- up   again for -PRON- . in the meantime just spread out -PRON- handkerchief on the   bank . " 
 -PRON- dove down with -PRON- twelve young one , and in five minute -PRON- be up   again with the crown rest on -PRON- wing . the twelve young one be   swimming round about with -PRON- beak under -PRON- , help to carry   -PRON- . -PRON- swim to the shore and put the crown on the handkerchief . no one   can imagine how magnificent the crown be . when the sun shone on -PRON- , -PRON-   gleam like a hundred thousand carbuncle . the tailor tie -PRON-   handkerchief together by the four corner and carry -PRON- to the king , who   be full of joy , and hang a gold chain around the tailor 's neck . 
 when the shoemaker see that the one trick have fail , -PRON- contrive a   second , and go to the king and say , " -PRON- majesty , the tailor have   become insolent again . -PRON- boast that -PRON- can copy in wax the whole of the   royal palace , with everything that pertain to -PRON- , movable or immovable ,   inside and out . " 
 the king send for the tailor and order -PRON- to copy in wax the whole of   the royal palace , with everything that pertain to -PRON- , movable or   immovable , inside and out . and fail this , or if so much as one nail on   the wall be miss , -PRON- should be imprison underground for the rest of   -PRON- life . 
 the tailor think , " -PRON- get bad and bad . no one can endure this , " and   -PRON- throw -PRON- bundle on -PRON- back , and go forth . when -PRON- come to the   hollow   tree , -PRON- sit down and hang -PRON- head . the bee come fly out , and the   queen bee ask -PRON- if -PRON- have a stiff neck , since -PRON- hang -PRON- head so . 
 " oh no , " answer the tailor , " something quite different weigh -PRON- down , "   and -PRON- tell -PRON- what the king have demand of -PRON- . 
 the bee begin to buzz and hum amongst -PRON- , and the queen bee say ,   " just go home again , but come back tomorrow at this time , and bring a   large cloth with -PRON- , and then all will be well . " 
 so -PRON- turn back again , but the bee fly to the royal palace and   straight into -PRON- through the open window , creep into every corner , and   inspect everything most carefully . then -PRON- hurry back and model   the palace in wax so quickly that anyone look on would have think -PRON-   be grow before -PRON- eye . by the evening all be ready , and when the   tailor come the next morning , the whole splendid building be there , and   not   one nail in the wall or tile on the roof be miss . and at the same time   -PRON- be delicate and white as snow , and smell sweet as honey . the tailor   wrap -PRON- carefully in -PRON- cloth and take -PRON- to the king , who could not   admire -PRON- enough , place -PRON- in -PRON- large hall , and in return for -PRON-   present the tailor with a large stone house . 
 the shoemaker , however , do not give up , but go for the third time to   the king and say , " -PRON- majesty , the tailor have hear that no water will   spring up in the castle 's courtyard , but -PRON- have boast that -PRON- can create   a fountain in the middle of the courtyard as tall as a man and as clear as   crystal . " 
 then the king order the tailor to be bring before -PRON- and say , " if a   stream of water do not rise in -PRON- courtyard by tomorrow as -PRON- have   promise , in that very place the executioner shall make -PRON- short by a   head . " 
 the poor tailor do not take long to think about -PRON- , but hurry out to   the gate , and because this time -PRON- be a matter of life and death to -PRON- ,   tear roll down -PRON- face . 
 while -PRON- be thus sorrowfully go forth , the foal to which -PRON- have   formerly give -PRON- liberty , and which have now become a beautiful chestnut   horse , come leap towards -PRON- . " the time have come , " -PRON- say to the   tailor , " when i can repay -PRON- for -PRON- good deed . i already know what -PRON-   need , and -PRON- shall soon have help . climb on ; -PRON- back can carry two of   -PRON- . " 
 the tailor 's courage come back to -PRON- . -PRON- jump up in one bound , and the   horse go full speed into the city , and immediately to the castle 's   courtyard . -PRON- gallop as quick as lightning three time around -PRON- , the   third time fall down . at that instant there be a terrific clap of   thunder , a fragment of earth in the middle of the courtyard spring like a   cannonball into the air and over the castle . directly afterward a jet of   water rise as high as a man on horseback , and the water be as pure as   crystal , and the sunbeam begin to dance on -PRON- . when the king see this -PRON-   arise in amazement , and go and embrace the tailor in the sight of all   man . 
 but good fortune do not last long . the king have daughter aplenty , each   one more beautiful than the other , but -PRON- have no son . so the malicious   shoemaker go to the king a fourth time , and say , " -PRON- majesty , the   tailor have not give up -PRON- arrogance . -PRON- have now boast that if -PRON-   like , -PRON- could cause a son to be bring to -PRON- majesty through the air . " 
 the king summon the tailor and say , " if -PRON- cause a son to be bring   to -PRON- within nine day , -PRON- shall have -PRON- eldest daughter to wife . " 
 " the reward be indeed great , " think the little tailor . " one would   willingly do something for -PRON- , but the cherry grow too high for -PRON- . if i   climb for -PRON- , the branch will break beneath -PRON- , and i shall fall . " 
 -PRON- go home , seat -PRON- cross - legg on -PRON- worktable , and think   over what be to be do . " -PRON- can not be manage , " -PRON- cry at last . " i will   go away after all . i can not live in peace here . " 
 -PRON- tie up -PRON- bundle and hurry away to the gate . when -PRON- get to the   meadow , -PRON- perceive -PRON- old friend the stork , who be walk backwards   and forward like a philosopher . sometimes -PRON- stand still , look closely   at a frog , than finally swallow -PRON- down . the stork come to -PRON- and   greet   -PRON- . 
 " i see , " -PRON- begin , " that -PRON- have -PRON- pack on -PRON- back . why be -PRON-   leave town ? " 
 the tailor tell -PRON- what the king have require of -PRON- , and how -PRON- could   not perform -PRON- , and lament -PRON- misfortune . 
 " do n't let that turn -PRON- hair gray , " say the stork , " i will help -PRON- out   of -PRON- difficulty . for a long time now , i have be carry infant   child into the city , so this time , i can fetch a little prince out of   the well . go home and take -PRON- easy . nine day from now go to the royal   palace , and i will arrive there as well . " 
 the little tailor go home , and at the appoint time be at the castle .   not long afterward the stork fly up and tap at the window . the tailor   open -PRON- , and cousin longleg come in carefully and walk with solemn   step over the smooth marble pavement . in -PRON- beak -PRON- have a baby that be   as lovely as an angel , and who stretch out -PRON- little hand to the   queen . the stork lay -PRON- in -PRON- lap , and -PRON- caress -PRON- and kiss -PRON- ,   and be beside -PRON- with delight . before fly away , the stork take   -PRON- travel bag off -PRON- back and hand -PRON- to the queen . in -PRON-   there be little paper parcel with color sweet , and -PRON- be divide   amongst the little princess . the eld , however , receive none of -PRON- ,   but instead get the merry tailor for a husband . 
 " -PRON- seem to -PRON- , " -PRON- say , " that i have win the high prize . -PRON- mother   be right after all . -PRON- always say that whoever trust in god and have   only good luck can never fail . " 
 the shoemaker have to make the shoe in which the little tailor dance at   the wedding festival , after which -PRON- be command to quit the town for   ever . the road to the forest lead -PRON- to the gallow . wear out with anger ,   rage , and the heat of the day , -PRON- throw -PRON- down . when -PRON- have close   -PRON- eye and be about to sleep , the two crow fly down from the head of   the man who be hang there and peck -PRON- eye out . in -PRON- madness -PRON-   run into the forest and must have die there of hunger , for no one have   see -PRON- or hear of -PRON- again . 



 the willful child 
 jacob and wilhelm grimm 



 the little old man make young by fire 

 peter have compassion and say , " lord and master , if -PRON- please -PRON- , cure -PRON- ailment , that -PRON- may earn -PRON- own bread . " 
 the lord say gently , " smith , lend -PRON- -PRON- forge and put some coal on for -PRON- , and then i will make this sick old man young again . " 
 the smith be quite willing . saint peter pump the bellow , and when the coal fire sparkle up large and high , -PRON- lord take the little old man , push -PRON- into the forge in the middle of the red fire , so that -PRON- glow like a rosebush , and praise god with a loud voice . 
 after that the lord go to the quenching - tub , put the glow little man into -PRON- so that the water close over -PRON- , and after -PRON- have carefully cool -PRON- , -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- blessing , when , behold , the little man spring nimbly out , look fresh , upright , healthy , and as if -PRON- be twenty year old . 
 the smith , who have watch everything closely and attentively , invite -PRON- all to supper . now -PRON- have an old half - blind , hunchbacked mother - in - law . -PRON- go to the youth and ask earnestly if the fire have burn -PRON- much . 
 -PRON- answer that -PRON- have never feel good , and that -PRON- have sit in the glowing coal as if -PRON- have be in cool dew . 
 the youth 's word echo in the the old woman 's ear all night long , and early the next morning , after the lord have go on -PRON- way again and have heartily thank the smith , the latter thought -PRON- may make -PRON- old mother - in - law young again in the same way , for -PRON- have watch everything very carefully , and -PRON- use the skill of -PRON- trade . therefore -PRON- call to -PRON- , ask -PRON- if -PRON- , too , would like to go prance about like an eighteen - year - old girl . 
 because the youth have come out of -PRON- so well , -PRON- say , " with all -PRON- heart . " 
 so the smith make a large fire , and push the old woman into -PRON- . -PRON- twist about this way and that , utter horrible cry of murder . 
 " sit still . why be -PRON- scream and jump about so ? i still have to blow the fire hot , " -PRON- cry , then pump the bellow again , until all -PRON- rag be all afire . 
 the old woman cry without cease , and the smith think to -PRON- , " -PRON- be not go exactly right . " then -PRON- take -PRON- out and throw -PRON- into the quenching - tub . -PRON- scream so loudly that the smith 's wife upstairs and -PRON- daughter - in - law hear -PRON- , and -PRON- both run downstairs , and see the old woman lie in a heap in the tub , howl and scream , with -PRON- face wrinkled and shrivel and all out of shape . 

 the duration of life 

 " thirty year , " answer god . " be that all right with -PRON- ? " 
 " oh , lord , " reply the donkey , " that be a long time . think of -PRON- tiresome   existence carry heavy load from morning until night , drag bag of   grain to the mill so that other may eat bread , only to be cheer along   and refresh with kick and blow ! spare -PRON- part of this long time . " 
 so god have mercy and give -PRON- eighteen year . the donkey go away   satisfied , and the dog make -PRON- appearance . 
 " how long do -PRON- want to live ? " say god to -PRON- . " thirty year be too   much for the donkey , but -PRON- will be satisfied with that long . " 
 " lord , " answer the dog . " be that -PRON- will ? just think how much i have   to run . -PRON- foot will not hold out so long . and what can i do but growl and   run from one corner to another after i have lose -PRON- voice for bark and   -PRON- tooth for bite ? " 
 god see that -PRON- be right , and -PRON- take away twelve year . then come the   monkey . 
 " surely -PRON- would like to live thirty year , " say the lord to -PRON- . " -PRON-   do not need to work like the donkey and the dog , and be always have   fun . " 
 " oh , lord , " -PRON- answer , " so -PRON- appear , but -PRON- be different . when -PRON-   rain porridge , i do not have a spoon . i be always suppose to be play   funny trick and make face so people will laugh , but when -PRON- give -PRON-   an apple and i bite into -PRON- , -PRON- be always sour . how often be sorrow hide   behind a joke . i can not put up with all that for thirty year ! " 
 god have mercy and give -PRON- ten year . finally man make -PRON- appearance .   cheerful , healthy , and refresh , -PRON- ask god to determine the duration   of -PRON- life . 
 " -PRON- shall live thirty year , " speak the lord . " be that enough for -PRON- ? " 
 " what a short time ! " cry the man . " when i have build a house and a fire   be burn on -PRON- own hearth , when i have plant tree that blossom and   bear fruit , and be just begin to enjoy life , then i be to die . oh ,   lord , extend -PRON- time . " 
 " i will add the donkey 's eighteen year , " say god . 
 " that be not enough , " reply the man . 
 " -PRON- shall also have the dog 's twelve year . " 
 " still too little . " 
 " well , then , " say god , " i will give -PRON- the monkey 's ten year as well ,   but -PRON- shall receive no more . " 
 the man go away , but -PRON- be not satisfied . 
 thus man live seventy year . the first thirty be -PRON- human year , and   -PRON- quickly disappear . here -PRON- be healthy and happy ; -PRON- work with   pleasure , and enjoy -PRON- existence . the donkey 's eighteen year follow .   here one burden after the other be lay on -PRON- ; -PRON- carry the grain that   feed other , and -PRON- faithful service be reward with kick and blow .   then come the dog 's twelve year , and -PRON- lie in the corner growl , no   longer have tooth with which to bite . and when this time be past , the   monkey 's ten year conclude . now man be weak head and foolish ; -PRON- do   silly thing and become a laughingstock for child . 



 death 's messenger 

 " i be death , " answer the other one . " no one resist -PRON- , and -PRON- too must   obey -PRON- order . " 
 but the giant refuse , and begin to wrestle with death . -PRON- be a long ,   violent battle , and finally the giant get the upper hand , and knock   death down with -PRON- fist , cause -PRON- to collapse by a stone . the giant   go on -PRON- way , and death lie there conquer , so weak that -PRON- could not   get up again . 
 " what be to come of this ? " -PRON- say . " if i stay lie here in a corner , no   one will die in the world , and -PRON- will become so filled with people that   -PRON- will not have room to stand beside one another . " 
 meanwhile a young man come down the road . vigorous and healthy , -PRON- be   sing a song and look this way and that . see the half - conscious   individual , -PRON- approach -PRON- with compassion , raise -PRON- up , give -PRON- a   refreshing drink from -PRON- flask , and wait until -PRON- regain -PRON-   strength . 
 " do -PRON- know , " ask the stranger , as -PRON- stand up , " who i be , and whom -PRON-   have help onto -PRON- leg again ? " 
 " no , " answer the youth , " i do not know -PRON- . " 
 " i be death , " -PRON- say . " i spare no one , nor can make an exception with   -PRON- . however , so -PRON- may see that i be grateful , i promise -PRON- that i will   not attack -PRON- without warning , but instead will send -PRON- messenger to -PRON-   before i come and take -PRON- away . " 
 " good , " say the youth . " -PRON- be to -PRON- benefit that i shall know when -PRON-   be come , and that i will be safe from -PRON- until then . " 
 then -PRON- go on -PRON- way , and be cheerful and carefree , and live one day   at a time . however , youth and good health do not last long . soon come   sickness and pain , which torment -PRON- by day and deprive -PRON- of -PRON- rest   by night . 
 " i shall not die , " -PRON- say to -PRON- , " for death will first send -PRON-   messenger , but i do wish that these wicked day of sickness be over . " 
 regain -PRON- health , -PRON- begin once more to live cheerfully . then one day   someone tap on -PRON- shoulder . 
 -PRON- look around , and death be stand behind -PRON- , who say , " follow -PRON- .   the hour of -PRON- departure from this world have come . " 
 " what ? " reply the man . " be -PRON- break -PRON- word ? do -PRON- not promise   -PRON- that -PRON- would send -PRON- messenger to -PRON- before -PRON- -PRON- would   come ? i have not see a one of -PRON- . " 
 " be still ! " answer death . " have i not send -PRON- one messenger after   another ? do not fever come and strike -PRON- , and shake -PRON- , and throw -PRON-   down ? have not dizziness numb -PRON- head ? have not gout pinch -PRON- limb ?   do -PRON- ear not buzz ? do toothache not bite into -PRON- cheek ? do -PRON-   eye not darken ? and furthermore , have not -PRON- own brother sleep remind   -PRON- every night of -PRON- ? during the night do -PRON- not lie there as if -PRON-   be already dead ? " 
 the man do not know how to answer , so -PRON- surrender to -PRON- fate and go   away with death . 



 the hare and the hedgehog 



 eve 's unequal child 

 after a considerable time have go by , god send an angel to -PRON- to announce that -PRON- -PRON- be come to inspect -PRON- household . eve , delight that the lord should be so gracious , clean -PRON- house diligently , decorate -PRON- with flower , and spread rush on the floor . then -PRON- bring in -PRON- child , but only the good - look one . -PRON- wash and bath -PRON- , comb -PRON- hair , put freshly launder shirt on -PRON- , and caution -PRON- to be polite and well - behave in the presence of the lord . -PRON- be to bow down before -PRON- courteously , offer to shake hand , and to answer -PRON- question modestly and intelligently . 
 the ugly child , however , be not to let -PRON- be see . -PRON- hide one of -PRON- beneath the hay , another in the attic , the third in the straw , the fourth in the stove , the fifth in the cellar , the sixth under a tub , the seventh beneath the wine barrel , the eighth under an old pelt , the ninth and tenth beneath the cloth from which -PRON- make -PRON- clothe , and the eleventh and twelfth under the leather from which -PRON- cut -PRON- shoe . 
 -PRON- have just finish when someone knock at the front door . adam look through a crack , and see that -PRON- be the lord . -PRON- open the door reverently , and the heavenly father enter . there stand the good - look child all in a row . -PRON- bow before -PRON- , offer to shake hand , and kneel down . 
 the lord begin to bless -PRON- . -PRON- lay -PRON- hand on the first , say , " -PRON- shall be a powerful king , " do the same thing to the second , say , " -PRON- a prince , " to the third , " -PRON- a count , " to the fourth , " -PRON- a knight , " to the fifth , " -PRON- a nobleman , " to the sixth , " -PRON- a burgher , " to the seventh , " -PRON- a merchant , " to the eighth , " -PRON- a scholar . " thus -PRON- bestow -PRON- rich blessing upon -PRON- all . 
 when eve see that the lord be so mild and gracious , -PRON- think , " i will bring forth -PRON- ugly child as well . perhaps -PRON- will bestow -PRON- blessing on -PRON- too . " so -PRON- run and fetch -PRON- from the hay , the straw , the stove , and wherever else -PRON- be hide away . in -PRON- come , the whole coarse , dirty , scabby , sooty lot of -PRON- . 
 the lord smile , look at -PRON- all , and say , " i will bless these as well . " 
 -PRON- lay -PRON- hand on the first and say to -PRON- , " -PRON- shall be a peasant , " to the second , " -PRON- a fisherman , " to the third , " -PRON- a smith , " to the fourth , " -PRON- a tanner , " to the fifth , " -PRON- a weaver , " to the sixth , " -PRON- a shoemaker , " to the seventh , " -PRON- a tailor , " to the eighth , " -PRON- a potter , " to the ninth , " -PRON- a teamster , " to the tenth , " -PRON- a sailor , " to the eleventh , " -PRON- a messenger , " to the twelfth , " -PRON- a household servant , all the day of -PRON- life . " 
 when eve have hear all this -PRON- say , " lord , how unequally -PRON- divide -PRON- blessing . all of -PRON- be -PRON- child , whom i have bring into the world . -PRON- should favor -PRON- all equally . " 
 but god reply , " eve , -PRON- do not understand . -PRON- be right and necessary that the entire world should be serve by -PRON- child . if -PRON- be all prince and lord , who would plant grain , thresh -PRON- , grind and bake -PRON- ? who would forge iron , weave cloth , build house , plant crop , dig ditch , and cut out and sew clothing ? each shall stay in -PRON- own place , so that one shall support the other , and all shall be feed like the part of a body . " 
 then eve answer , " oh , lord , forgive -PRON- , i speak too quickly to -PRON- . let -PRON- divine will be do with -PRON- child as well . " 

 the nixie in the pond 

 one morning -PRON- get up before daybreak and go outside , think that   the fresh air would lighten -PRON- heart . as -PRON- be walk across the mill   dam , the first sunbeam be just appear , and -PRON- hear something ripple   in the pond . 
 turn around , -PRON- see a beautiful woman rise slowly out of the   water . -PRON- long hair , which -PRON- be hold above -PRON- shoulder with -PRON-   soft hand , flow down on both side , and cover -PRON- white body .   -PRON- see   very well that -PRON- be the nixie of the pond , and -PRON- be so frightened   that -PRON- do not know whether to run away or stay where -PRON- be . but the   nixie , speak with a soft voice , call -PRON- by name and ask -PRON- why -PRON-   be so sad . 
 at first the miller be speechless , but when -PRON- hear -PRON- speak so   kindly , -PRON- take heart and tell -PRON- how -PRON- have live with good fortune and   wealth , but that now -PRON- be so poor that -PRON- do not know what to do . 
 " be at ease , " answer the nixie . " i will make -PRON- rich and happy   than -PRON- have ever be before . -PRON- must only promise to give -PRON- that   which have just be bear in -PRON- house . " 
 " what else can that be , " think the miller , " but a young dog or a   young cat , " and -PRON- promise -PRON- what -PRON- demand . 
 the nixie descend into the water again , and console and in good   spirit -PRON- hurry back to -PRON- mill . -PRON- have not yet arrive there when the   maid come out of the front door and call out to -PRON- that -PRON- should   rejoice , for -PRON- wife have give birth to a little boy . 
 the miller stand there as though -PRON- have be strike by lightning . -PRON-   see very well that the cunning nixie have know this and have cheat -PRON- .   with -PRON- head lower -PRON- go to -PRON- wife 's bed . when -PRON- say , " why be   -PRON- not happy with the beautiful boy ? " -PRON- tell -PRON- what have happen to   -PRON- , and what kind of a promise -PRON- have give to the nixie . 
 " what good to -PRON- be good fortune and prosperity , " -PRON- add , " if i be   to lose -PRON- child ? but what can i do ? " 
 even the relative who have come to congratulate -PRON- do not have any   advice for -PRON- . 
 in the meantime , good fortune return to the miller 's house . -PRON-   succeed in everything that -PRON- undertake . -PRON- be as though the trunk and   strongbox fill -PRON- of -PRON- own accord , and as though money in   a chest multiply overnight . before long -PRON- wealth be great than -PRON-   have ever be before . however , -PRON- do not bring -PRON- happiness without   concern , for -PRON- agreement with the nixie torment -PRON- heart . whenever -PRON-   pass the pond -PRON- fear -PRON- may appear and demand payment of -PRON- debt . 
 -PRON- never allow the boy -PRON- to go near the water . " beware ! " -PRON-   say to -PRON- . " if -PRON- touch the water a hand will appear , take hold of -PRON- ,   and pull -PRON- under . " 
 however , year after year pass , and the nixie make no further   appearance , so the miller begin to feel at ease . 
 the boy grow up to be a young man and be apprentice to a huntsman .   when -PRON- have learn this trade and have become a skilled huntsman , the lord   of the village take -PRON- into -PRON- service . in the village there live a   beautiful and faithful maiden whom the huntsman like , and when -PRON- master   notice this , -PRON- give -PRON- a little house . the two be marry , live   peacefully and happily , and love each other sincerely . 
 one day the huntsman be pursue a deer . when the animal run out of   the wood and into an open field -PRON- follow -PRON- and finally bring -PRON-   down with a single shot . 
 -PRON- do not notice that -PRON- be in the vicinity of the dangerous   millpond , and after -PRON- have dress out the deer , -PRON- go to the water in   order to wash -PRON- blood - stain hand . however , -PRON- have scarcely dip   -PRON- into the water when the nixie emerge . laugh , -PRON- wrap -PRON- wet   arm around -PRON- , then pull -PRON- under so quickly that wave splash over   -PRON- . 
 when -PRON- be evening and the huntsman do not return home , -PRON- wife   become frightened . -PRON- go out to look for -PRON- . -PRON- have often tell -PRON-   that -PRON- have to be on -PRON- guard against the nixie 's snare , and that -PRON- do   not dare to go near the millpond , so -PRON- already suspect what have   happen . -PRON- hurry to the water , and when -PRON- find -PRON- hunting bag   lie on the bank , -PRON- could no longer have any doubt of the misfortune .   cry and wring -PRON- hand , -PRON- call -PRON- beloved by name , but to no   avail . -PRON- hurry across to the other side of the millpond , and call   -PRON- anew . -PRON- curse the nixie with harsh word , but no answer follow .   the surface of the water remain calm ; only the moon 's half face star   steadily back up at -PRON- . 
 the poor woman do not leave the pond . with fast stride , never   stop to rest , -PRON- walk around -PRON- again and again , sometimes in   silence , sometimes cry out loudly , sometimes sob softly . finally   -PRON- strength give out , and -PRON- sink down to the ground , fall into a   heavy sleep . -PRON- be soon immerse in a dream . 
 at that moment , the poor woman awake . -PRON- be already daylight , and -PRON-   decide at once to follow -PRON- dream . with difficulty -PRON- climb the   mountain , and everything be just as -PRON- have see -PRON- during the night . the   old woman receive -PRON- kindly , show -PRON- a chair where -PRON- be to sit . 
 " -PRON- must have meet with misfortune , " -PRON- say , " have seek out -PRON-   lonely cottage . " 
 the woman relate with tear what have happen to -PRON- . 
 " be comfort , " say the old woman . " i will help -PRON- . here be a golden   comb for -PRON- . wait until the full moon have rise , then go to the millpond ,   sit down on the bank and comb -PRON- long black hair with this comb . when   -PRON- be finished set -PRON- down on the bank , and -PRON- will see what will   happen . " 
 the woman return home , but the time pass slowly for -PRON- until the   full moon come . finally the shin disk appear in the heaven , and -PRON-   go out to the millpond , sit down , and comb -PRON- long black hair with   the golden comb . when -PRON- be finish -PRON- set -PRON- down at the water 's   edge . before long there come a motion from beneath the water . a wave   arise , roll onto the bank , and carry the comb away with -PRON- . in not   more time than -PRON- take for the comb to sink to the bottom , the surface of   the water part , and the huntsman 's head emerge . -PRON- say nothing , only   look at -PRON- wife with sorrowful glance . that same instant a second   wave rush up and cover -PRON- husband 's head . then everything vanish .   the millpond lie as peaceful as before , with only the face of the full   moon shin on -PRON- . 
 fill with sorrow , the woman return , but -PRON- see the old woman 's   cottage in a dream . 
 the next morning -PRON- again set out and tell -PRON- sorrow to the wise   woman . the old woman give -PRON- a golden flute , and say , " wait until the   full moon come again , then take this flute . sit on the bank and play a   beautiful tune on -PRON- . when -PRON- be finished set -PRON- in the sand . then -PRON-   will see what will happen . " 
 the woman do what the old woman have tell -PRON- to do . no sooner be the   flute lie in the sand than there be a motion from beneath the water ,   and a wave rush up and carry the flute away with -PRON- . immediately   afterwards the water part , and not only -PRON- husband 's head , but half of   -PRON- body emerge as well . -PRON- stretch out -PRON- arm longingly towards -PRON- ,   but a second wave rush up , cover -PRON- , and pull -PRON- down again . 
 " oh , what do -PRON- help -PRON- , " say the unhappy woman , " for -PRON- only to see   -PRON- beloved and then to lose -PRON- again ? " 
 despair fill -PRON- heart anew , but a dream lead -PRON- a third time to the   old woman 's house . -PRON- go there , and the wise woman give -PRON- a golden   spin wheel , comfort -PRON- , and say , " everything be not yet fulfil .   wait until the full moon come , then take the spinning wheel , sit on the   bank , and spin the spool full . when -PRON- have do this place the spinning   wheel at the water 's edge , and -PRON- will see what will happen . " 
 the woman do everything exactly as -PRON- have be tell . as soon as the   full moon appear -PRON- carry the golden spinning wheel to the bank , and   span diligently until -PRON- be out of flax , and the spool be completely   fill with thread . -PRON- have scarcely place the wheel on the bank when   there be a more violent motion than before from the water 's depth . then a   powerful wave rush up and carry the wheel away with -PRON- . 
 immediately the head and the whole body of -PRON- husband emerge in a   waterspout . -PRON- quickly jump to the bank , catch -PRON- wife by the hand ,   and flee . -PRON- have go only a little distance when the entire millpond   arise with a terrible roar , then with terrible force stream out across   the countryside . the fugitive see death before -PRON- eye , when the wife   in -PRON- terror call out for the old woman to help -PRON- , and -PRON- be   instantly transform , -PRON- into a toad , -PRON- into a frog . 
 the flood which have overtake -PRON- could not destroy -PRON- , but -PRON-   separate -PRON- and carry -PRON- far away . when the water recede and -PRON-   both reach dry land again , -PRON- human form return again , but neither   know where the other one be . -PRON- find -PRON- among strange people   who do not know -PRON- native land . high mountain and deep valley lie   between -PRON- . in order to earn a living , -PRON- both have to herd sheep . for   long year -PRON- drive -PRON- flock through field and wood , and be   fill with sorrow and longing . 
 one day when spring have once again break forth on the earth , -PRON- both   go out with -PRON- flock , and as chance would have -PRON- , -PRON- move toward   one another . -PRON- see a herd on a distant mountainside and drive -PRON- sheep   toward -PRON- . -PRON- meet in a valley but do not recognize one another , but   -PRON- be happy that -PRON- be no longer so alone . from then on every day   -PRON- drive -PRON- flock next to each other . -PRON- do not speak much , but   -PRON- do feel comfort . 
 one evening when the full moon be shin in the sky , and the sheep   be already at rest , the shepherd take -PRON- flute out of -PRON- pocket and   play on -PRON- a beautiful but sorrowful tune . when -PRON- have finish -PRON- see   that the shepherdess be cry bitterly . 
 " why be -PRON- cry ? -PRON- ask . 
 " oh , " -PRON- answer , " the full moon be shin like this when i play   that tune on the flute for the last time , and -PRON- beloved 's head emerge   out of the water . " 
 -PRON- look at -PRON- , and -PRON- be as though a veil fall from -PRON- eye . -PRON-   recognize -PRON- beloved wife , and when -PRON- look at -PRON- , with the moon   shin on -PRON- face , -PRON- recognize -PRON- as well . -PRON- embrace and kiss   one another , and no one need to ask if -PRON- be happy . 

 the gift of the little people 

 an old man , somewhat large than the other , sit in -PRON- midst . -PRON- wear a brightly colored jacket , and -PRON- ice - gray beard hang down over -PRON- chest . fill with amazement , the two wanderer stop and watch the dance . the old man motion to -PRON- that -PRON- too should join in , and the little people voluntarily open -PRON- circle . 
 the goldsmith , who have a hump on -PRON- back , and -- like all hunchback -- be forward enough , step right up . the tailor be at first a little shy and hold back , but as soon as -PRON- see what fun -PRON- be , -PRON- too take heart and join in . 
 -PRON- close the circle again , and the little people sing and dance wildly forth . however , the old man take a broad knife , that have be hang from -PRON- belt , sharpen -PRON- , and as soon as -PRON- be sufficiently sharpen , look at the stranger . -PRON- be frightened , but -PRON- do not have to worry for long . the old man grab the goldsmith and with the great speed smoothly shave off -PRON- beard and the hair from -PRON- head . then the same thing happen to the tailor . 
 -PRON- fear disappear when the old man pat -PRON- friendly on -PRON- shoulder as if -PRON- want to say that -PRON- have do well by let -PRON- all happen without resist . with -PRON- finger -PRON- point toward a pile of coal that lie nearby , and indicate to -PRON- through gesture that -PRON- should fill -PRON- pocket with -PRON- . -PRON- both obey , although -PRON- do not know of what use the coal would be to -PRON- . then -PRON- go on -PRON- way to seek out a place to spend the night . 
 -PRON- have just arrive in the valley when the bell from a neighboring monastery strike twelve . the singing cease instantly . everyone disappear , and the hill lie in lonely moonlight . 
 the two wanderer find shelter . lie on bed of straw , -PRON- cover -PRON- with -PRON- jacket . -PRON- be so tired that -PRON- forget to take the coal out of -PRON- pocket first . 
 -PRON- be awaken earlier than normal by a heavy weight press down on -PRON- limb . -PRON- reach into -PRON- pocket , and could hardly believe -PRON- eye when -PRON- see that -PRON- be not fill with coal , but with pure gold . further , -PRON- hair and -PRON- beard have also be fully restore . 
 now -PRON- be rich . however , the goldsmith have twice as much as the tailor , because -- true to -PRON- greedy nature -- -PRON- have fill -PRON- pocket better . however much a greedy person have , -PRON- always want more , so the goldsmith propose to the tailor that -PRON- stay there another day in order to be able to gain even more wealth from the old man on the mountain that evening . 
 the tailor do not want to do this , and say : " i have enough and be satisfied . i be go to become a master , marry -PRON- pleasant object ( as -PRON- call -PRON- sweetheart ) , and be a happy man . " 
 however , to please the goldsmith , -PRON- agree to stay one more day . that evening the goldsmith hang several pocket over -PRON- shoulder in order to be able to carry everything , and set off for the hill . 
 as have happen the night before , -PRON- find the little people dance and singing . the old man shave -PRON- smooth once again , and indicate that -PRON- should take some coal . without hesitate -PRON- pack away as much as -PRON- pocket would hold , and then happily return home . cover -PRON- with -PRON- jacket -PRON- say : " i can bear -PRON- , if the gold press down on -PRON- . " with the sweet premonition that -PRON- would awaken tomorrow as a very rich man , -PRON- fall asleep . 
 when -PRON- open -PRON- eye , -PRON- get up quickly in order to examine -PRON- pocket . how astounded -PRON- be , that -PRON- pull out nothing but black coal , however often -PRON- reach inside . " anyway , i still have the gold from the night before , " -PRON- think , and reach for -PRON- . horrified , -PRON- see that -PRON- too have turn back into coal . -PRON- strike -PRON- on the forehead with -PRON- grimy hand , and feel that -PRON- entire head be as bald and smooth as -PRON- beardless chin . 
 nor be that the end of -PRON- misfortune . only now do -PRON- notice that in addition the hump on -PRON- back , a second one , of the same size , have grow onto -PRON- chest . now -PRON- recognize the punishment for -PRON- greed and begin to cry aloud . 
 the good tailor , who have be awaken by all this , console the unhappy man as good -PRON- could , say : " -PRON- be -PRON- travel companion , and -PRON- can stay with -PRON- now and live from -PRON- treasure . " 
 -PRON- keep -PRON- word , but the poor goldsmith have to bear two hump and cover -PRON- bald head with a cap as long as -PRON- live . 

 knoist and -PRON- three son 



 the nail 

 at noon make a rest stop in a town . when -PRON- be about to continue on -PRON- way , a servant bring -PRON- -PRON- horse and say , " sir , a nail be miss from the shoe on -PRON- left hind hoof . " 
 " let -PRON- be , " answer the merchant . " the shoe will certainly stay on for the six hour that i still have to ride . i be in a hurry . " 
 that afternoon , when -PRON- dismount once again and have -PRON- horse feed , a servant come into the inn and say , " sir , a shoe be miss from -PRON- horse 's leave hind hoof . shall i take -PRON- to the blacksmith ? " 
 " let -PRON- be , " answer the man . " the horse can manage for the few hour that i still have to ride . i be in a hurry . " 
 -PRON- ride on , but before long the horse begin to limp . -PRON- do not limp long before -PRON- begin to stumble , and -PRON- do not stumble long before -PRON- fall down and break a leg . the merchant have to leave the horse where -PRON- be , and unbuckle the duffel bag , load -PRON- onto -PRON- shoulder , and walk home on foot , not arrive there until very late that night . 
 " all this bad luck , " -PRON- say to -PRON- , " be cause by that curse nail . " 
 haste make waste . 

 lean lisa 

 one evening -PRON- be lie in bed , too tired to move a muscle but still   unable to fall asleep , when -PRON- poke -PRON- husband in the side with -PRON-   elbow and say , " lenz , listen to what i just think of . if i be to find   a florin , and -PRON- be to give -PRON- another one , then -PRON- would borrow yet another   one , and -PRON- would give -PRON- still another one , and then i would take the four   florin and buy a young cow . " 
 the man agree . " i do not know , " -PRON- say , " where -PRON- be to get that florin   -PRON- be suppose to give -PRON- , but after -PRON- have the money to buy a cow , -PRON-   will be a good thing . " then -PRON- add , " i 'm look forward to the time   after the cow calf , so i can have some good refreshing milk to   drink . " 
 " the milk be not for -PRON- , " say the woman . " -PRON- will let the calf suck ,   so -PRON- will grow large and fat , and -PRON- can sell -PRON- for a good price . " 
 " of course , " say the man , " but -PRON- will not hurt anything if -PRON- take a   little milk . " 
 " who teach -PRON- about cow ? " say the woman . " i will not allow -PRON- , whether   -PRON- will hurt anything or not . -PRON- can stand on -PRON- head , but -PRON- will not   get a single drop of milk . lanky lenz , just because -PRON- be always hungry ,   -PRON- think that -PRON- can devour everything that -PRON- hard work bring in . " 
 " woman , " say the man , " be quiet , or -PRON- will plant one on the side of -PRON-   face . " 
 " what ! " -PRON- cry . " be -PRON- threaten -PRON- ! -PRON- glutton ! -PRON-   good - for - nothing ! -PRON- lazybone ! " 
 -PRON- be reach for -PRON- hair , but lanky lenz raise -PRON- up , take   hold of both -PRON- skinny arm with one hand , then push -PRON- head into the   pillow with the other one . -PRON- hold -PRON- there and let -PRON- scold until -PRON-   fall asleep from exhaustion . 
 the next morning when -PRON- wake up , i do not know whether -PRON- continue   to quarrel , or whether -PRON- go out to look for the florin that -PRON- want   to find . 

 the hare and the hedgehog 



 spindle , shuttle , and needle 

 when the girl be fifteen year old the godmother take ill , call the   child to -PRON- bedside , and say , " -PRON- dear daughter , i feel that -PRON- end be   near . i leave to -PRON- this little house , that will protect -PRON- from wind   and weather ; and also a spindle , a shuttle , and a needle , with which -PRON-   can earn -PRON- living . " 
 -PRON- then lay -PRON- hand on the girl 's head and bless -PRON- , say , " keep   god in -PRON- heart , and -PRON- will go well with -PRON- . " with that -PRON- close -PRON-   eye . when -PRON- be lay to rest in the earth , the girl walk behind the   coffin crying , and pay -PRON- last respect . 
 the girl now live all alone in the little house . -PRON- be industrious . -PRON-   span , wove , and sew ; and everything -PRON- do be touch by the good old   woman 's blessing . -PRON- be as though the flax multiply -PRON- in -PRON-   kitchen , and whenever -PRON- weave a piece of cloth or a carpet , or sew a   shirt , -PRON- always immediately find a buyer who pay so well that -PRON- be   never in need and always have something to share with other . 
 at this time the king 's son be travel throughout the country in search   of a bride . -PRON- want neither a poor one nor a rich one . -PRON- say , " -PRON- wife   shall be the girl who be at the same time the poor and the rich . " 
 when -PRON- come to the village where the girl live -PRON- ask , as -PRON- have do   everywhere , who be the rich girl and the poor girl . first of all   -PRON- name for -PRON- the rich girl , and then say that the poor girl   be the one who live in the little house at the end of the village . 
 the rich girl sit in -PRON- doorway in all -PRON- finery , and when the prince   approach -PRON- bow before -PRON- . -PRON- look at -PRON- , say not a word , and   ride on . 
 when -PRON- arrive at the poor girl 's house -PRON- be not stand in the   doorway , but instead be sit in -PRON- little kitchen . -PRON- stop -PRON-   horse and look into the window , through which the bright sun be   shin , and see the girl , sit at -PRON- spinning wheel and diligently   spinning . -PRON- look up , and when -PRON- see the prince look in -PRON-   blush all over , close -PRON- eye , and continue to spin . i do not know if   the thread be entirely even at this time , but -PRON- continue to spin until   the prince have ride away . 
 then -PRON- step to the window and open -PRON- , say , " -PRON- be so hot in the   kitchen , " but -PRON- continue to follow -PRON- with -PRON- eye as long as -PRON-   could recognize the white feather on -PRON- hat . 
 the girl sit back down in the kitchen and continue to work at -PRON-   spinning . then a saying come to -PRON- that the old woman have sometimes say   while -PRON- be at work , and -PRON- sing -PRON- thus : 

 what happen ? the spindl immediately jump out of -PRON- hand and out the   door . amazed , -PRON- stand up and watch -PRON- as -PRON- dance merrily across the   field , pull along a glisten golden thread behind -PRON- . before long -PRON-   have disappear from -PRON- eye . 
 because the girl no longer have a spindle , -PRON- pick up -PRON- shuttle ,   seat -PRON- at -PRON- loom , and begin to weave . 
 now the spindle dance ever onward , and just as the thread come to an end   -PRON- reach the prince . 
 " what do i see ? " -PRON- cry . " be this spindle show -PRON- the way ? " 
 -PRON- turn -PRON- horse around and follow the golden thread back . 
 the girl be seat at -PRON- work singing : 

 just then the shuttle jump from -PRON- hand and out the door . however , -PRON-   begin to weave a carpet before the threshold , a more beautiful one than   anyone have ever see before . at -PRON- side blossom rose and lily . in   -PRON- middle , against a golden background , there be row of green upon   which hare and rabbit be jump about . in between , stag and deer   stick out -PRON- head . colorful bird sit above in the branch . the only   thing miss be -PRON- singing . the shuttle jump back and forth . -PRON- be   as though everything be grow by -PRON- . 
 because -PRON- shuttle have run away , the girl now sit down to sew . -PRON- hold   -PRON- needle in -PRON- hand and sing : 

 then the needle jump out of -PRON- finger and fly about in the kitchen as   quick as lightning . -PRON- be as though invisible spirit be at work . the   table and bench be soon cover with green cloth , the chair with   velvet ; and silk curtain hang at the window . 
 the needle have scarcely make -PRON- last stitch when the girl look through   the window and see the white feather on the prince 's hat . the spindle have   bring -PRON- here with -PRON- golden thread . -PRON- dismount and walk across   the carpet into the house . when -PRON- step into the kitchen -PRON- be   stand there in -PRON- simple dress , but -PRON- be glow in -PRON- like a rose   in a bush . 
 " -PRON- be the poor , but also the rich , " -PRON- say to -PRON- . " come with   -PRON- . -PRON- shall be -PRON- bride . " 
 -PRON- say nothing , but reach out -PRON- hand to -PRON- . then -PRON- give -PRON- a kiss   and lead -PRON- outside , lift -PRON- onto -PRON- horse , and take -PRON- to the royal   palace where -PRON- wedding be celebrate with great joy . 
 the spindle , shuttle , and needle be secure in the treasure chamber ,   where -PRON- be keep in great honor . 


 the peasant and the devil 

 " -PRON- must be sit on a treasure , " say the peasant . 
 " yes indeed , " reply the devil , " on a treasure that contain more gold and silver than -PRON- have ever see in -PRON- life . " 
 " the treasure be in -PRON- field and belong to -PRON- , " say the peasant . 
 " -PRON- be -PRON- , " answer the devil , " if for two year -PRON- will give -PRON- one half of everything -PRON- field produce . i have enough money ,   but i have a desire for the fruit of the earth . " 
 the peasant enter into the bargain , say , " to prevent any dispute from arise about the division , everything above the ground shall belong   to -PRON- , and everything beneath the ground to -PRON- . " 
 the devil be quite satisfied with that , but the cunning peasant have   plant turnip . 
 now when harvest time come the devil appear and want to take away   -PRON- crop , but -PRON- find nothing except the yellow wither leaf , and the   happy peasant dig up -PRON- turnip . 
 " -PRON- get the good of -PRON- this time , " say the devil , " but -PRON- will not happen again . next time what grow above ground shall be -PRON- , and   what be under -PRON- shall be -PRON- . " 
 " that be all right with -PRON- , " answer the peasant . when plant time come the peasant do not plant turnip again , but wheat . the crop   ripen , and the peasant go into the field and cut the full stalk off at ground level . when the devil come -PRON- find nothing but the stubble , and -PRON-   angrily disappear into a chasm in a cliff . 
 " that be the way one have to deal with fox , " say the peasant , then carry away the treasure . 

 the crumb on the table 

 the hen say , " no , no , -PRON- will not go . if -PRON- mistress find out , -PRON- will   beat -PRON- . " 
 then the rooster say , " -PRON- will not know anything about -PRON- . come on . -PRON-   never give -PRON- anything good . " 
 then the hen say once again , " no , no . not ever . -PRON- be not go in   there . " 
 but the rooster would give -PRON- no peace until -PRON- finally get onto the   table and begin to eat the breadcrumb with all -PRON- might . just then the   mistress come home , quickly take hold of a stick , drive -PRON- off the table   and give -PRON- a good beating . 
 once outside the house , the hen say to the rooster , " do n't -PRON- see , see ,   see , see , see , see , see ? " 
 the rooster laugh and say , " do n't i know -PRON- , know -PRON- , know -PRON- ? " 
 and -PRON- go -PRON- way . 


 the seven swabian 

 all seven have decide to travel throughout the world seek adventure   and perform great deed . in order to arm -PRON- and assure -PRON-   safety , -PRON- think -PRON- would be a good thing to have a single , but very   strong and very long spear make for -PRON- . together all seven of -PRON- take   hold of this spear . the brave and most manly of -PRON- be in front , and   that have to be herr schulz . the other follow in order , with veitli   bring up the rear . 
 now one day in the month of july , when -PRON- have walk a long way but   still have a good piece to go before reach the village where -PRON- be   go to spend the night , -PRON- happen that -PRON- be in a meadow just as   -PRON- be get dark , and a large beetle or hornet fly by -PRON- from behind   a bush , buzz in a threaten manner . 
 herr schulz be so frightened that -PRON- almost let go of the spear , and a   cold sweat break out over -PRON- whole body . " listen , listen , " -PRON- shout to   -PRON- comrade . " good heaven , i hear a drum ! " 
 jackli , who be hold the spear behind -PRON- , and who have just smell   i do not know what , say , " something be here for sure . i can smell the   powder and the fuse . " 
 hear these word , herr schulz begin to run away , and -PRON- quickly   jump over a fence , land right on the tooth of a rake that have be   leave lie there from haymaking . the handle hit -PRON- in the face with a   tremendous blow . 
 " oh dear , oh dear , " scream master schulz . " take -PRON- prisoner ! i   surrender ! i surrender ! " 
 the other six all jump toward -PRON- , one over the other , scream , " if   -PRON- surrender , i surrender too . if -PRON- surrender , i surrender too . " 
 but no enemy be there to bind -PRON- and take -PRON- away , so -PRON- finally   see that -PRON- have be deceive . to keep the story from get out and   cause -PRON- to look foolish and to be ridicule , -PRON- all swear to one   another that -PRON- would say nothing about -PRON- until one of -PRON- should open   -PRON- mouth by mistake . 
 then -PRON- travel onward . 
 the second danger that -PRON- experience can not be compare to the first   one . a few day later -PRON- path lead -PRON- across an unplowed field where a   hare be sit asleep in the sun . -PRON- ear be stand straight up ,   and -PRON- large glassy eye be wide open . 
 all of -PRON- be frighten at the sight of this terrible wild beast ,   and -PRON- discuss with one another what would be the least dangerous   thing to do . if -PRON- be to run away , -PRON- fear that the monster would   pursue -PRON- and devour -PRON- all , even -PRON- skin and hair . 
 so -PRON- say , " -PRON- will have to fight a great and dangerous battle . well   begin be half do ! " 
 then all seven take hold of the spear , herr schulz in front and veitli   at the rear . herr schulz be always try to hold the spear back , but at   the rear veitli have become quite brave , and want to break loose . -PRON-   shout : 
 but han know how to answer this , and -PRON- say : 
 michal shout : 
 then -PRON- be jergli 's turn , and -PRON- say : 
 then marli have a good idea , and -PRON- say to veitli : 
 veitli , however , do not obey , and jackli say : 
 then herrr schulz take courage , and say : 
 then all together -PRON- attack the dragon . herr schulz cross -PRON-   and pray to god for assistance , but none of this help , so , approach   the enemy , -PRON- scream in great fear , " oh , oh , oh , oh ! " 
 this awaken the hare , and the frightened animal dart swiftly away .   when herr schulz see -PRON- thus flee from the battlefield , -PRON- shout out   joyfully : 
 then the band of swabian go in search of further adventure , and -PRON-   come to the mosel , a mossy , still , deep river . there be only a few   bridge over -PRON- , and in many place people have to cross -PRON- by boat . the   seven swabian do not know this , so -PRON- shout to a man who be work   on the opposite side of the river , and ask -PRON- how to get across . 
 because of the distance and -PRON- language , the man do not understand   what -PRON- want , and -PRON- ask , in the dialect of trier , " wat ? wat ? " 
 herr schulz think -PRON- be say , " wade . wade through the water , " and   because -PRON- be in front , -PRON- set forth and begin walk into the mosel .   before long -PRON- sink into the mud and into the deep wave that be drive   against -PRON- . however , the wind blow -PRON- hat to the opposite shore . a frog   sit down beside -PRON- , and croak , " wat , wat , wat . " 
 the other six hear this from the other side and say , " aha , -PRON-   comrade herr schulz be call -PRON- . if -PRON- can wade across , then why can not   -PRON- ? " 
 so in a rush and all together -PRON- jump into the water and drown . 
 thus one frog take the life of all six of -PRON- , and not one of the   band of swabian ever come home again . 

 the ear of grain 

 one day a woman be walk along a grain field , and -PRON- little child , who   be jump along beside -PRON- , fall into a puddle and get -PRON- clothe   dirty . the mother tear off a handful of the beautiful ear of grain and   clean -PRON- clothe with -PRON- . 
 the lord be just then pass by , and when -PRON- see -PRON- do this , -PRON-   become angry and say , " from this time forth the grain - stalk shall bear no   more ear of grain . human be not worthy of this heavenly gift . " 
 the bystander who hear this be horrified , fall to -PRON- knee , and   beg -PRON- to leave at least something on the grain - stalk , even if -PRON-   do not deserve -PRON- , at least for the sake of the innocent chicken , who   otherwise would starve to death . 
 the lord , foresee the misery that would come , take pity on -PRON- and   grant -PRON- wish . thus the ear at the top of the stalk remain , just as   -PRON- grow today . 

